
                           THE GOD IN THE CAR

                               _A NOVEL_


                                   BY
                              ANTHONY HOPE
                  AUTHOR OF THE PRISONER OF ZENDA, ETC.


                             [Illustration]


                                NEW YORK
                        D. APPLETON AND COMPANY
                                  1894




                            COPYRIGHT, 1894.

                      BY D. APPLETON AND COMPANY.




                               CONTENTS.


    CHAPTER                                                     PAGE

       I.--AN INSOLENT MEMORY                                      1

      II.--THE COINING OF A NICKNAME                              14

     III.--MRS. DENNISON'S ORDERS                                 26

      IV.--TWO YOUNG GENTLEMEN                                    39

       V.--A TELEGRAM TO FRANKFORT                                52

      VI.--WHOSE SHALL IT BE?                                     66

     VII.--AN ATTEMPT TO STOP THE WHEELS                          81

    VIII.--CONVERTS AND HERETICS                                  96

      IX.--AN OPPRESSIVE ATMOSPHERE                              108

       X.--A LADY'S BIT OF WORK                                  120

      XI.--AGAINST HIS COMING                                    134

     XII.--IT CAN WAIT                                           148

    XIII.--A SPASM OF PENITENCE                                  160

     XIV.--THE THING OR THE MAN                                  173

      XV.--THE WORK OF A WEEK                                    185

     XVI.--THE LAST BARRIERS                                     200

    XVII.--A SOUND IN THE NIGHT                                  217

   XVIII.--ON THE MATTER OF A RAILWAY                            231

     XIX.--PAST PRAYING FOR                                      248

      XX.--THE BARON'S CONTRIBUTION                              258

     XXI.--A JOINT IN HIS ARMOUR                                 271

    XXII.--A TOAST IN CHAMPAGNE                                  287

   XXIII.--THE CUTTING OF THE KNOT                               304

    XXIV.--THE RETURN OF A FRIEND                                317

     XXV.--THE MOVING CAR                                        332




                          THE GOD IN THE CAR.


                               CHAPTER I.

                          AN INSOLENT MEMORY.


"I'm so blind," said Miss Ferrars plaintively. "Where are my glasses?"

"What do you want to see?" asked Lord Semingham.

"The man in the corner, talking to Mr. Loring."

"Oh, you won't know him even with the glasses. He's the sort of man you
must be introduced to three times before there's any chance of a
permanent impression."

"You seem to recognise him."

"I know him in business. We are, or rather are going to be,
fellow-directors of a company."

"Oh, then I shall see you in the dock together some day."

"What touching faith in the public prosecutor! Does nothing shake your
optimism?"

"Perhaps your witticisms."

"Peace, peace!"

"Well, who is he?"

"He was once," observed Lord Semingham, as though stating a curious
fact, "in a Government. His name is Foster Belford, and he is still
asked to the State Concerts."

"I knew I knew him! Why, Harry Dennison thinks great things of him!"

"It is possible."

"And he, not to be behindhand in politeness, thinks greater of Maggie
Dennison."

"His task is the easier."

"And you and he are going to have the effrontery to ask shareholders to
trust their money to you?"

"Oh, it isn't us; it's Ruston."

"Mr. Ruston? I've heard of him."

"You very rarely admit that about anybody."

"Moreover, I've met him."

"He's quite coming to the front, of late, I know."

"Is there any positive harm in being in the fashion? I like now and then
to talk to the people one is obliged to talk about."

"Go on," said Lord Semingham, urbanely.

"But, my dear Lord Semingham----"

"Hush! Keep the truth from me, like a kind woman. Ah! here comes Tom
Loring----How are you, Loring? Where's Dennison?"

"At the House. I ought to be there, too."

"Why, of course. The place of a private secretary is by the side of----"

"His chief's wife. We all know that," interposed Adela Ferrars.

"When you grow old, you'll be sorry for all the wicked things you've
said," observed Loring.

"Well, there'll be nothing else to do. Where are you going, Lord
Semingham?"

"Home."

"Why?"

"Because I've done my duty. Oh, but here's Dennison, and I want a word
with him."

Lord Semingham passed on, leaving the other two together.

"Has Harry Dennison been speaking to-day?" asked Miss Ferrars.

"Well, he had something prepared."

"He had something! You know you write them."

Mr. Loring frowned.

"Yes, and I know we aren't allowed to say so," pursued Adela.

"It's neither just nor kind to Dennison."

Miss Ferrars looked at him, her brows slightly raised.

"And you are both just and kind, really," he added.

"And you, Mr. Loring, are a wonderful man. You're not ashamed to be
serious! Oh, yes, I've annoyed--you're quite right. I was--whatever I
was--on the ninth of last March, and I think I'm too old to be
lectured."

Tom Loring laughed, and, an instant later, Adela followed suit.

"I suppose it was horrid of me," she said. "Can't we turn it round and
consider it as a compliment to you?"

Tom looked doubtful, but, before he could answer, Adela cried:

"Oh, here's Evan Haselden, and--yes--it's Mr. Ruston with him?"

As the two men entered, Mrs. Dennison rose from her chair. She was a
tall woman; her years fell one or two short of thirty. She was not a
beauty, but her broad brow and expressive features, joined to a certain
subdued dignity of manner and much grace of movement, made her
conspicuous among the women in her drawing-room. Young Evan Haselden
seemed to appreciate her, for he bowed his glossy curly head, and shook
hands in a way that almost turned the greeting into a deferentially
distant caress. Mrs. Dennison acknowledged his hinted homage with a
bright smile, and turned to Ruston.

"At last!" she said, with another smile. "The first time after--how many
years?"

"Eight, I believe," he answered.

"Oh, you're terribly definite. And what have you been doing with
yourself?"

He shrugged his square shoulders, and she did not press her question,
but let her eyes wander over him.

"Well?" he asked.

"Oh--improved. And I?"

Suddenly Ruston laughed.

"Last time we met," he said, "you swore you'd never speak to me again."

"I'd quite forgotten my fearful threat."

He looked straight in her face for a moment, as he asked--

"And the cause of it?"

Mrs. Dennison coloured.

"Yes, quite," she answered; and conscious that her words carried no
conviction to him, she added hastily, "Go and speak to Harry. There he
is."

Ruston obeyed her, and being left for a moment alone, she sat down on
the chair placed ready near the door for her short intervals of rest.
There was a slight pucker on her brow. The sight of Ruston and his
question stirred in her thoughts, which were never long dormant, and
which his coming woke into sudden activity. She had not anticipated that
he would venture to recall to her that incident--at least, not at
once--in the first instant of meeting, at such a time and such a place.
But as he had, she found herself yielding to the reminiscence he
induced. Forgotten the cause of her anger with him? For the first two or
three years of her married life, she would have answered, "Yes, I have
forgotten it." Then had come a period when now and again it recurred to
her, not for his sake or its own, but as a summary of her stifled
feeling; and during that period she had resolutely struggled not to
remember it. Of late that struggle had ceased, and the thing lay a
perpetual background to her thoughts: when there was nothing else to
think about, when the stage of her mind was empty of moving figures, it
snatched at the chance of prominence, and thus became a recurrent
consciousness from which her interests and her occupations could not
permanently rescue her. For example, here she was thinking of it in the
very midst of her party. Yet this persistence of memory seemed
impertinent, unreasonable, almost insolent. For, as she told herself,
finding it necessary to tell herself more and more often, her husband
was still all that he had been when he had won her heart--good-looking,
good-tempered, infinitely kind and devoted. When she married she had
triumphed confidently in these qualities; and the unanimous cry of
surprised congratulations at the match she was making had confirmed her
own joy and exultation in it. It had been a great match; and yet, beyond
all question, also a love match.

But now the chorus of wondering applause was forgotten, and there
remained only the one voice which had been raised to break the harmony
of approbation--a voice that nobody, herself least of all, had listened
to then. How should it be listened to? It came from a nobody--a young
man of no account, whose opinion none cared to ask; whose judgment, had
it been worth anything in itself, lay under suspicion of being biassed
by jealousy. Willie Ruston had never declared himself her suitor; yet
(she clung hard to this) he would not have said what he did had not the
chagrin of a defeated rival inspired him; and a defeated rival, as
everybody knows, will say anything. Certainly she had been right not to
listen, and was wrong to remember. To this she had often made up her
mind, and to this she returned now as she sat watching her husband and
Willie Ruston, forgetful of all the chattering crowd beside.

As to what it was she resolved not to remember, and did remember, it was
just one sentence--his only comment on the news of her engagement, his
only hint of any opinion or feeling about it. It was short, sharp,
decisive, and, as his judgments were, even in the days when he, alone of
all the world, held them of any moment, absolutely confident; it was
also, she had felt on hearing it, utterly untrue, unjust, and
ungenerous. It had rung out like a pistol-shot, "Maggie, you're marrying
a fool," and then a snap of tight-fitting lips, a glance of scornful
eyes, and a quick, unhesitating stride away that hardly waited for a
contemptuous smile at her angry cry, "I'll never speak to you again."
She had been in a fury of wrath--she had a power of wrath--that a plain,
awkward, penniless, and obscure youth--one whom she sometimes disliked
for his arrogance, and sometimes derided for his self-confidence--should
dare to say such a thing about her Harry, whom she was so proud to love,
and so proud to have won. It was indeed an insolent memory that flung
the thing again and again in her teeth.

The party began to melt away. The first good-bye roused Mrs. Dennison
from her enveloping reverie. Lady Valentine, from whom it came, lingered
for a gush of voluble confidences about the charm of the house, and the
people, and the smart little band that played softly in an alcove, and
what not; her daughter stood by, learning, it is to be hoped, how it is
meet to behave in society, and scanning Evan Haselden's trim figure with
wary, critical glances, alert to turn aside if he should glance her way.
Mrs. Dennison returned the ball of civility, and, released by several
more departures, joined Adela Ferrars. Adela stood facing Haselden and
Tom Loring, who were arm-in-arm. At the other end of the room Harry
Dennison and Ruston were still in conversation.

"These _men_, Maggie," began Adela--and it seemed a mere caprice of
pronunciation, that the word did not shape itself into "monkeys"--"are
the absurdest creatures. They say I'm not fit to take part in politics!
And why?"

Mrs. Dennison shook her head, and smiled.

"Because, if you please, I'm too emotional. Emotional, indeed! And I
can't generalise! Oh, couldn't I generalise about men!"

"Women can never say 'No,'" observed Evan Haselden, not in the least as
if he were repeating a commonplace.

"You'll find you're wrong when you grow up," retorted Adela.

"I doubt that," said Mrs. Dennison, with the kindest of smiles.

"Maggie, you spoil the boy. Isn't it enough that he should have gone
straight from the fourth form--where, I suppose, he learnt to
generalise----"

"At any rate, not to be emotional," murmured Loring.

"Into Parliament, without having his head turned by----"

"You'd better go, Evan," suggested Loring in a warning tone.

"I shall go too," announced Adela.

"I'm walking your way," said Evan, who seemed to bear no malice.

"How delightful!"

"You don't object?"

"Not the least. I'm driving."

"A mere schoolboy score!"

"How stupid of me! You haven't had time to forget them."

"Oh, take her away," said Mrs. Dennison, and they disappeared in a fire
of retorts, happy, or happy enough for happy people, and probably Evan
drove with the lady after all.

Mrs. Dennison walked towards where her husband and Ruston sat on a sofa
in talk.

"What are you two conspiring about?" she asked.

"Ruston had something to say to me about business."

"What, already?"

"Oh, we've met in the city, Mrs. Dennison," explained Ruston, with a
confidential nod to Harry.

"And that was the object of your appearance here to-day? I was
flattering my party, it seems."

"No. I didn't expect to find your husband. I thought he would be at the
House."

"Ah, Harry, how did the speech go?"

"Oh, really pretty well, I think," answered Harry Dennison, with a
contented air. "I got nearly half through before we were counted out."

A very faint smile showed on his wife's face.

"So you were counted out?" she asked.

"Yes, or I shouldn't be here."

"You see, I am acquitted, Mrs. Dennison. Only an accident brought him
here."

"An accident impossible to foresee," she acquiesced, with the slightest
trace of bitterness--so slight that her husband did not notice it.

Ruston rose.

"Well, you'd better talk to Semingham about it," he remarked to Harry
Dennison; "he's one of us, you know."

"Yes, I will. And I'll just get you that pamphlet of mine; you can put
it in your pocket."

He ran out of the room to fetch what he promised. Mrs. Dennison, still
faintly smiling, held out her hand to Ruston.

"It's been very pleasant to see you again," she said graciously. "I hope
it won't be eight years before our next meeting."

"Oh, no; you see I'm floating now."

"Floating?" she repeated, with a smile of enquiry.

"Yes; on the surface. I've been in the depths till very lately, and
there one meets no good society."

"Ah! You've had a struggle?"

"Yes," he answered, laughing; "you may call it a bit of a struggle."

She looked at him with grave curious eyes.

"And you are not married?" she asked abruptly.

"No, I'm glad to say."

"Why glad, Mr. Ruston? Some people like being married."

"Oh, I don't claim to be above it, Mrs. Dennison," he answered with a
laugh, "but a wife would have been a great hindrance to me all these
years."

There was a simple and _bona fide_ air about his statement; it was not
raillery; and Mrs. Dennison laughed in her turn.

"Oh, how like you!" she murmured.

Mr. Ruston, with a passing gleam of surprise at her merriment, bade her
a very unemotional farewell, and left her. She sat down and waited idly
for her husband's return. Presently he came in. He had caught Ruston in
the hall, delivered his pamphlet, and was whistling cheerfully. He took
a chair near his wife.

"Rum chap that!" he said. "But he's got a good deal of stuff in him;"
and he resumed his lively tune.

The tune annoyed Mrs. Dennison. To suffer whistling without visible
offence was one of her daily trials. Harry's emotions and reflections
were prone to express themselves through that medium.

"I didn't do half-badly, to-day," said Harry, breaking off again. "Old
Tom had got it all splendidly in shape for me--by Jove, I don't know
what I should do without Tom--and I think I put it pretty well. But, of
course, it's a subject that doesn't catch on with everybody."

It was the dullest subject in the world; it was also, in all likelihood,
one of the most unimportant; and dull subjects are so seldom unimportant
that the perversity of the combination moved Maggie Dennison to a
wondering pity. She rose and came behind the chair where her husband
sat. Leaning over the back, she rested her elbows on his shoulders, and
lightly clasped her hands round his neck. He stopped his whistle, which
had grown soft and contented, laughed, and kissed one of the encircling
hands, and she, bending lower, kissed him on the forehead as he turned
his face up to look at her.

"You poor dear old thing!" she said with a smile and a sigh.




                              CHAPTER II.

                       THE COINING OF A NICKNAME.


When it was no later than the middle of June, Adela Ferrars, having her
reputation to maintain, ventured to sum up the season. It was, she said,
a Ruston-cum-Violetta season. Violetta's doings and unexampled triumphs
have, perhaps luckily, no place here; her dancing was higher and her
songs more surpassing in another dimension than those of any performer
who had hitherto won the smiles of society; and young men who are
getting on in life still talk about her. Ruston's fame was less
widespread, but his appearance was an undeniable fact of the year. When
a man, the first five years of whose adult life have been spent on a
stool in a coal merchant's office, and the second five somewhere (an
absolutely vague somewhere) in Southern or Central Africa, comes before
the public, offering in one closed hand a new empire, or, to avoid all
exaggeration, at least a province, asking with the other opened hand for
three million pounds, the public is bound to afford him the tribute of
some curiosity. When he enlists in his scheme men of eminence like Mr.
Foster Belford, of rank like Lord Semingham, of great financial
resources like Dennison Sons & Company, he becomes one whom it is
expedient to bid to dinner and examine with scrutinising enquiry. He may
have a bag of gold for you; or you may enjoy the pleasure of exploding
his _prestige_; at least, you are timely and up-to-date, and none can
say that your house is a den of fogies, or yourself, in the language
made to express these things (for how otherwise should they get
themselves expressed?) on other than "the inner rail."

It chanced that Miss Ferrars arrived early at the Seminghams, and she
talked with her host on the hearth-rug, while Lady Semingham was
elaborately surveying her small but comely person in a mirror at the
other end of the long room. Lord Semingham was rather short and
rather stout; he hardly looked as if his ancestors had fought at
Hastings--perhaps they had not, though the peerage said they had. He
wore close-cut black whiskers, and the blue of his jowl witnessed a
suppressed beard of great vitality. His single eye-glass reflected
answering twinkles to Adela's _pince-nez_, and his mouth was puckered at
the world's constant entertainment; men said that he found his wife
alone a sufficient and inexhaustible amusement.

"The Heathers are coming," he said, "and Lady Val and Marjory, and young
Haselden, and Ruston."

"_Toujours_ Ruston," murmured Adela.

"And one or two more. What's wrong with Ruston? There is, my dear Adela,
no attitude more offensive than that of indifference to what the common
herd finds interesting."

"He's a fright," said Adela. "You'd spike yourself on that bristly beard
of his."

"If you happened to be near enough, you mean?--a danger my sex and our
national habits render remote. Bessie!"

Lady Semingham came towards them, with one last craning look at her own
back as she turned. She always left the neighbourhood of a mirror with
regret.

"Well?" she asked with a patient little sigh.

"Adela is abusing your friend Ruston."

"He's not my friend, Alfred. What's the matter, Adela?"

"I don't think I like him. He's hard."

"He's got a demon, you see," said Semingham. "For that matter we all
have, but his is a whopper."

"Oh, what's my demon?" cried Adela. Is not oneself always the most
interesting subject?

"Yours? Cleverness; He goads you into saying things one can't see the
meaning of."

"Thanks! And yours?"

"Grinning--so I grin at your things, though I don't understand 'em."

"And Bessie's?"

"Oh, forgive me. Leave us a quiet home."

"And now, Mr. Ruston's?"

"His is----"

But the door opened, and the guests, all arriving in a heap, just twenty
minutes late, flooded the room and drowned the topic. Another five
minutes passed, and people had begun furtively to count heads and wonder
whom they were waiting for, when Evan Haselden was announced. Hot on his
heels came Ruston, and the party was completed.

Mr. Otto Heather took Adela Ferrars in to dinner. Her heart sank as he
offered his arm. She had been heard to call him the silliest man in
Europe; on the other hand, his wife, and some half-dozen people besides,
thought him the cleverest in London.

"That man," he said, swallowing his soup and nodding his head towards
Ruston, "personifies all the hideous tendencies of the age--its
brutality, its commercialism, its selfishness, its----"

Miss Ferrars looked across the table. Ruston was seated at Lady
Semingham's left hand, and she was prattling to him in her sweet
indistinct little voice. Nothing in his appearance warranted Heather's
outburst, unless it were a sort of alert and almost defiant readiness,
smacking of a challenge to catch him napping.

"I'm not a mediævalist myself," she observed, and prepared to endure the
penalty of an _exposé_ of Heather's theories. During its progress, she
peered--for her near sight was no affectation--now and again at the
occasion of her sufferings. She had heard a good deal about
him--something from her host, something from Harry Dennison, more from
the paragraphists who had scented their prey, and gathered from the four
quarters of heaven (or wherever they dwelt) upon him. She knew about the
coal merchant's office, the impatient flight from it, and the rush over
the seas; there were stories of real naked want, where a bed and shelter
bounded for the moment all a life's aspirations. She summed him up as a
buccaneer modernised; and one does not expect buccaneers to be amiable,
while culture in them would be an incongruity. It was, on the whole, not
very surprising, she thought, that few people liked William Roger
Ruston--nor that many believed in him.

"Don't you agree with me?" asked Heather.

"Not in the least," said Adela at random.

The odds that he had been saying something foolish were very large.

"I thought you were such friends!" exclaimed Heather in surprise.

"Well, to confess, I was thinking of something else. Who do you mean?"

"Why, Mrs. Dennison. I was saying that her calm queenly manner----"

"Good gracious, Mr. Heather, don't call women 'queenly.' You're
like--what is it?--a 'dime novel.'"

If this comparison were meant to relieve her from the genius'
conversation for the rest of dinner, it was admirably conceived. He
turned his shoulder on her in undisguised dudgeon.

"And how's the great scheme?" asked somebody of Ruston.

"We hope to get the money," he said, turning for a moment from his
hostess. "And if we do that, we're all right."

"Everything's going on very well," called Semingham from the foot of the
table. "They've killed a missionary."

"How dreadful!" lisped his wife.

"Regrettable in itself, but the first step towards empire," explained
Semingham with a smile.

"It's to stop things of that kind that we are going there," Mr. Belford
pronounced; the speech was evidently meant to be repeated, and to rank
as authoritative.

"Of course," chuckled Semingham.

If he had been a shopman, he could not have resisted showing his
customers how the adulteration was done.

In spite of herself--for she strongly objected to being one of an
admiring crowd, and liked a personal _cachet_ on her emotions--Adela
felt pleasure when, after dinner, Ruston came straight to her and,
displacing Evan Haselden, sat down by her side. He assumed the position
with a business-like air, as though he meant to stay. She often, indeed
habitually, had two or three men round her, but to-night none contested
Ruston's exclusive possession; she fancied that the business-like air
had something to do with it. She had been taken possession of, she said
to herself, with a little impatience and yet a little pleasure also.

"You know everybody here, I suppose?" he asked. His tone cast a doubt on
the value of the knowledge.

"It's my tenth season," said Adela, with a laugh. "I stopped counting
them once, but there comes a time when one has to begin again."

He looked at her--critically, she thought--as he said,

"The ravages of time no longer to be ignored?"

"Well, the exaggerations of friends to be checked. Yes, I suppose I know
most of----"

She paused for a word.

"The gang," he suggested, leaning back and crossing his legs.

"Yes, we are a gang, and all on one chain. You're a recent captive,
though."

"Yes," he assented, "it's pretty new to me. A year ago I hadn't a dress
coat."

"The gods are giving you a second youth then."

"Well, I take it. I don't know that I have much to thank the gods for."

"They've been mostly against you, haven't they? However, what does that
matter, if you beat them?"

He did not disdain her compliment, but neither did he accept it. He
ignored it, and Adela, who paid very few compliments, was amused and
vexed.

"Perhaps," she added, "you think your victory still incomplete?"

This gained no better attention. Mr. Ruston seemed to be following his
own thoughts.

"It must be a curious thing," he remarked, "to be born to a place like
Semingham's."

"And to use it--or not to use it--like Lord Semingham?"

"Yes, I was thinking of that," he admitted.

"To be eminent requires some self-deception, doesn't it? Without that,
it would seem too absurd. I think Lord Semingham is overweighted with
humour." She paused and then--to show that she was not in awe of
him--she added,--"Now, I should say, you have very little."

"Very little, indeed, I should think," he agreed composedly.

"You're the only man I ever heard admit that of himself; we all say it
of one another."

"I know what I have and haven't got pretty well."

Adela was beginning to be more sure that she disliked him, but the topic
had its interest for her and she went on,

"Now I like to think I've got everything."

To her annoyance, the topic seemed to lose interest for him, just in
proportion as it gained interest for her. In fact, Mr. Ruston did not
apparently care to talk about what she liked or didn't like.

"Who's that pretty girl over there," he asked, "talking to young
Haselden?"

"Marjory Valentine," said Adela curtly.

"Oh! I think I should like to talk to her."

"Pray, don't let me prevent you," said Adela in very distant tones.

The man seemed to have no manners.

Mr. Ruston said nothing, but gave a short laugh. Adela was not
accustomed to be laughed at openly. Yet she felt defenceless; this
pachydermatous animal would be impervious to the pricks of her rapier.

"You're amused?" she asked sharply.

"Why were you in such a hurry to take offence? I didn't say I wanted to
go and talk to her now."

"It sounded like it."

"Oh, well, I'm very sorry," he conceded, still smiling, and obviously
thinking her very absurd.

She rose from her seat.

"Please do, though. She'll be going soon, and you mayn't get another
chance."

"Well, I will then," he answered simply, accompanying the remark with a
nod of approval for her sensible reminder. And he went at once.

She saw him touch Haselden on the shoulder, and make the young man
present him to Marjory. Ruston sat down and Haselden drifted, aimless
and forlorn, on a solitary passage along the length of the room.

Adela joined Lady Semingham.

"That's a dreadful man, Bessie," she said; "he's a regular Juggernaut."

She disturbed Lady Semingham in a moment of happiness; everybody had
been provided with conversation, and the hostess could sit in peaceful
silence, looking, and knowing that she looked, very dainty and pretty;
she liked that much better than talking.

"Who's what, dear?" she murmured.

"That man--Mr. Ruston. I say he's a Juggernaut. If you're in the way, he
just walks over you--and sometimes when you're not: for fun, I suppose."

"Alfred says he's very clever," observed Lady Semingham, in a tone that
evaded any personal responsibility for the truth of the statement.

"Well, I dislike him very much," declared Adela.

"We won't have him again when you're coming, dear," promised her friend
soothingly.

Adela looked at her, hesitated, opened her fan, shut it again, and
smiled.

"Oh, I didn't mean that, Bessie," she said with half a laugh. "Do,
please."

"But if you dislike him----"

"Why, my dear, doesn't one hate half the men one likes meeting--and all
the women!"

Lady Semingham smiled amiably. She did not care to think out what that
meant; it was Adela's way, just as it was her husband's way to laugh at
many things that seemed to her to afford no opening for mirth. But Adela
was not to escape. Semingham himself appeared suddenly at her elbow, and
observed,

"That's either nonsense or a truism, you know."

"Neither," said Adela with spirit; but her defence was interrupted by
Evan Haselden.

"I'm going," said he, and he looked out of temper. "I've got another
place to go to. And anyhow----"

"Well?"

"I'd like to be somewhere where that chap Ruston isn't for a little
while."

Adela glanced across. Ruston was still talking to Marjory Valentine.

"What can he find to say to her?" thought Adela.

"What the deuce she finds to talk about to that fellow, I can't think,"
pursued Evan, and he flung off to bid Lady Semingham good-night.

Adela caught her host's eye and laughed. Lord Semingham's eyes twinkled.

"It's a big province," he observed, "so there may be room for him--out
there."

"I," said Adela, with an air of affected modesty, "have ventured,
subject to your criticism, to dub him Juggernaut."

"H'm," said Semingham, "it's a little obvious, but not so bad for you."




                              CHAPTER III.

                         MRS. DENNISON'S ORDERS.


Next door to Mrs. Dennison's large house in Curzon Street there lived,
in a small house, a friend of hers, a certain Mrs. Cormack. She was a
Frenchwoman, who had been married to an Englishman, and was now his most
resigned widow. She did not pretend to herself, or to anybody else, that
Mr. Cormack's death had been a pure misfortune, and by virtue of her
past trials--perhaps, also, of her nationality--she was keenly awake to
the seamy side of matrimony. She would rhapsodise on the joys of an
ideal marriage, with a skilful hint of its rarity, and condemn
transgressors with a charitable reservation for insupportable miseries.
She was, she said, very romantic. Tom Loring, however (whose evidence
was tainted by an intense dislike of her), declared that _affaires du
coeur_ interested her only when one at least of the parties was lawfully
bound to a third person; when both were thus trammelled, the situation
was ideal. But the loves of those who were in a position to marry one
another, and had no particular reason for not following that legitimate
path to happiness, seemed to her (still according to Tom) dull,
uninspiring--all, in fact, that there was possible of English and
stupid. She hardly (Tom would go on, warming to his subject) believed in
them at all, and she was in the habit of regarding wedlock merely as a
condition precedent to its own violent dissolution. Whether this unhappy
mode of looking at the matter were due to her own peculiarities, or to
those of the late Mr. Cormack, or to those of her nation, Tom did not
pretend to say; he confined himself to denouncing it freely, and to
telling Mrs. Dennison that her next-door neighbour was in all respects a
most undesirable acquaintance; at which outbursts Mrs. Dennison would
smile.

Mrs. Dennison, coming out on to the balcony to see if her carriage were
in sight down the street, found her friend close to her elbow. Their
balconies adjoined, and friendship had led to a little gate being
substituted for the usual dwarf-wall of division. Tom Loring erected the
gate into an allegory of direful portent. Mrs. Cormack passed through
it, and laid an affectionate grasp on Maggie Dennison's arm.

"You're starting early," she remarked.

"I'm going a long way--right up to Hampstead. I've promised Harry to
call on some people there."

"Ah! Who?"

"Their name's Carlin. He knows Mr. Carlin in business. Mr. Carlin's a
friend of Mr. Ruston's."

"Oh, of Ruston's? I like that Ruston. He is interesting--inspiring."

"Is he?" said Mrs. Dennison, buttoning her glove. "You'd better marry
him, Berthe."

"Marry him? No, indeed. I think he would beat one."

"Is that being inspiring? I'm glad Harry's not inspiring."

"Oh, you know what I mean. He's a man who----"

Mrs. Cormack threw up her arms as though praying for the inspired word.
Mrs. Dennison did not wait for it.

"There's the carriage. Good-bye, dear," she said.

Mrs. Dennison started with a smile on her face. Berthe was so funny; she
was like a page out of a French novel. She loved anything not quite
respectable, and peopled the world with heroes of loose morals and
overpowering wills. She adored a dominating mind and lived in the
discovery of affinities. What nonsense it all was--so very remote from
the satisfactory humdrum of real life. One kept house, and gave dinners,
and made the children happy, and was fond of one's husband, and life
passed most----Here Mrs. Dennison suddenly yawned, and fell to hoping
that the Carlins would not be oppressively dull. She had been bored all
day long; the children had been fretful, and poor Harry was hurt and in
low spirits because of a cruel caricature in a comic paper, and Tom
Loring had scolded her for laughing at the caricature (it hit Harry off
so exactly), and nobody had come to see her, except a wretch who had
once been her kitchenmaid, and had come to terrible grief, and wanted to
be taken back, and of course couldn't be, and had to be sent away in
tears with a sovereign, and the tears were no use and the sovereign not
much.

The Carlins fortunately proved tolerably interesting in their own way.
Carlin was about fifty-five--an acute man of business, it seemed, and
possessed by an unwavering confidence in the abilities of Willie Ruston.
Mrs. Carlin was ten or fifteen years younger than her husband--a homely
little woman, with a swarm of children. Mrs. Dennison wondered how they
all fitted into the small house, but was told that it was larger by two
good rooms than their old dwelling in the country town, whence Willie
had summoned them to take a hand in his schemes. Willie had not insisted
on the coal business being altogether abandoned--as Mrs. Carlin said,
with a touch of timidity, it was well to have something to fall back
upon--but he required most of Carlin's time now, and the added work made
residence in London a necessity. In spite of Mr. Carlin's air of
hard-headedness, and his wife's prudent recognition of the business
aspect of life, they neither of them seemed to have a will of their own.
Willie--as they both called him--was the Providence, and the mixture of
reverence and familiarity presented her old acquaintance in a new light
to Maggie Dennison. Even the children prattled about "Willie," and their
mother's rebukes made "Mr. Ruston" no more than a strange and transitory
effort. Mrs. Dennison wondered what there was in the man--consulting her
own recollections of him in hope of enlightenment.

"He takes such broad views," said Carlin, and seemed to find this
characteristic the sufficient justification for his faith.

"I used to know him very well, you know," remarked Mrs. Dennison,
anxious to reach a more friendly footing, and realising that to connect
herself with Ruston offered the best chance of it. "I daresay he's
spoken of me--of Maggie Sherwood?"

They thought not, though Willie had been in Carlin's employ at the time
when he and Mrs. Dennison parted. She was even able, by comparison of
dates, to identify the holiday in which that scene had occurred and that
sentence been spoken; but he had never mentioned her name. She very much
doubted whether he had even thought of her. The fool and the fool's wife
had both been dismissed from his mind. She frowned impatiently. Why
should it be anything to her if they had?

There was a commotion among the children, starting from one who was
perched on the window-sill. Ruston himself was walking up to the door,
dressed in a light suit and a straw hat. After the greetings, while all
were busy getting him tea, he turned to Mrs. Dennison.

"This is very kind of you," he said in an undertone.

"My husband wished me to come," she replied.

He seemed in good spirits. He laughed, as he answered,

"Well, I didn't suppose you came to please me."

"You spoke as if you did," said she, still trying to resent his tone,
which she thought a better guide to the truth than his easy disclaimer.

"Why, you never did anything to please me!"

"Did you ever ask me?" she retorted.

He glanced at her for a moment, as he began to answer,

"Well, now, I don't believe I ever did; but I----"

Mrs. Carlin interposed with a proffered cup of tea, and he broke off.

"Thanks, Mrs. Carlin. I say, Carlin, it's going first-rate. Your
husband's help's simply invaluable, Mrs. Dennison."

"Harry?" she said, in a tone that she regretted a moment later, for
there was a passing gleam in Ruston's eye before he answered gravely,

"His firm carries great weight. Well, we're all in it here, sink or
swim; aren't we, Carlin?"

Carlin nodded emphatically, and his wife gave an anxious little sigh.

"And what's to be the end of it?" asked Mrs. Dennison.

"Ten per cent," said Carlin, with conviction. He could not have spoken
with more utter satisfaction of the millennium.

"The end?" echoed Ruston. "Oh, I don't know."

"At least he won't say," said Carlin admiringly.

Mrs. Dennison rose to go, engaging the Carlins to dine with her--an
invitation accepted with some nervousness, until the extension of it to
Ruston gave them a wing to come under. Ruston, with that directness of
his that shamed mere dexterity and superseded tact, bade Carlin stay
where he was, and himself escorted the visitor to her carriage. Half-way
down the garden walk she looked up at him and remarked,

"I expect you're the end."

His eyes had been wandering, but they came back sharply to hers.

"Then don't tell anybody," said he lightly.

She did not know whether what he said amounted to a confession or were
merely a jest. The next moment he was off at a tangent.

"I like your friend Miss Ferrars. She says a lot of sharp things, and
now and then something sensible."

"Now and then! Poor Adela!"

"Well, she doesn't often try. Besides, she's handsome."

"Oh, you've found time to notice that?"

"I notice that first," said Mr. Ruston.

They were at the carriage-door.

"I'm not dressed properly, so I mustn't drive with you," he said.

"Supposing that was the only reason," she replied, smiling, "would it
stop you?"

"Certainly."

"Why?"

"Because of other fools."

"I'll take you as far as Regent's Park. The other fools are on the other
side of that."

"I'll chance so far," and, waving his hand vaguely towards the house, he
got in. It did not seem to occur to him that there was any want of
ceremony in his farewell to the Carlins.

"I suppose," she said, "you think most of us fools?"

"I've been learning to think it less and to show it less still."

"You're not much changed, though."

"I've had some of my corners chipped off by collision with other hard
substances."

"Thank you for that 'other'!" cried Mrs. Dennison, with a little laugh.
"They must have been very hard ones."

"I didn't say that they weren't a little bit injured too."

"Poor things! I should think so."

"I have my human side."

"Generally the other side, isn't it?" she asked with a merry glance. The
talk had suddenly become very pleasant. He laughed, and stopped the
carriage. A sigh escaped from Mrs. Dennison.

"Next time," he said, "we'll talk about you, or Miss Ferrars, or that
little Miss Marjory Valentine, not about me. Good-bye," and he was gone
before she could say a word to him.

But it was natural that she should think a little about him. She had
not, she said to herself with a weary smile, too many interesting things
to think about, and she began to find him decidedly interesting; in
which fact again she found a certain strangeness and some material for
reflection, because she recollected very well that as a girl she had not
found him very attractive. Perhaps she demanded then more colouring of
romance than he had infused into their intercourse; she had indeed
suspected him of suppressed romance, but the suppression had been very
thorough, betraying itself only doubtfully here and there, as in his
judgment of her accepted suitor. Moreover, let his feelings then have
been what they might, he was not, she felt sure, the man to cherish a
fruitless love for eight or nine years, or to suffer any resurrection of
expired emotions on a renewed encounter with an old flame. He buried his
dead too deep for that; if they were in the way, she could fancy him
sometimes shovelling the earth over them and stamping it down without
looking too curiously whether life were actually extinct or only
flickering towards its extinction; if it were not quite gone at the
beginning of the gravedigger's work, it would be at the end, and the
result was the same. Nor did she suppose that ghosts gibbered or clanked
in the orderly trim mansions of his brain. In fact, she was to him a
more or less pleasant acquaintance, sandwiched in his mind between Adela
Ferrars and Marjory Valentine--with something attractive about her,
though she might lack the sparkle of the one and had been robbed of the
other's youthful freshness. This was the conclusion which she called
upon herself to draw as she drove back from Hampstead--the plain and
sensible conclusion. Yet, as she reached Curzon Street, there was a
smile on her face; and the conclusion was hardly such as to make her
smile--unless indeed she had added to it the reflection that it is ill
judging of things till they are finished. Her acquaintance with Willie
Ruston was not ended yet.

"Maggie, Maggie!" cried her husband through the open door of his study
as she passed up-stairs. "Great news! We're to go ahead. We settled it
at the meeting this morning."

Harry Dennison was in exuberant spirits. The great company was on the
verge of actual existence. From the chrysalis of its syndicate stage it
was to issue a bright butterfly.

"And Ruston was most complimentary to our house. He said he could never
have carried it through without us. He's in high feather."

Mrs. Dennison listened to more details, thinking, as her husband talked,
that Ruston's cheerful mood was fully explained, but wondering that he
had not himself thought it worth while to explain to her the cause of it
a little more fully. With that achievement fresh in his hand, he had
been content to hold his peace. Did he think her not worth telling?

With a cloud on her brow and her smile eclipsed, she passed on to the
drawing-room. The window was open and she saw Tom Loring's back in the
balcony. Then she heard her friend Mrs. Cormack's rather shrill voice.

"Not say such things?" the voice cried, and Mrs. Dennison could picture
the whirl of expostulatory hands that accompanied the question. "But why
not?"

Tom's voice answered in the careful tones of a man who is trying not to
lose his temper, or, anyhow, to conceal the loss.

"Well, apart from anything else, suppose Dennison heard you? It wouldn't
be over-pleasant for him."

Mrs. Dennison stood still, slowly peeling off her gloves.

"Oh, the poor man! I would not like to hurt him. I will be silent. Oh,
he does his very best! But you can't help it."

Mrs. Dennison stepped a yard nearer the window.

"Help what?" asked Tom in the deepest exasperation, no longer to be
hidden.

"Why, what must happen? It must be that the true man----"

A smile flickered over Maggie Dennison's face. How like Berthe! But
whence came this topic?

"Nonsense, I tell you!" cried Tom with a stamp of his foot.

And at the sound Mrs. Dennison smiled again, and drew yet nearer to the
window.

"Oh, it's always nonsense what I say! Well, we shall see, Mr. Loring,"
and Mrs. Cormack tripped in through her window, and wrote in her
diary--she kept a diary full of reflections--that Englishmen were all
stupid. She had written that before, but the deep truth bore repetition.

Tom went in too, and found himself face to face with Mrs. Dennison.
Bright spots of colour glowed on her cheeks; had she answered the
question of the origin of the topic? Tom blushed and looked furtively at
her.

"So the great scheme is launched," she remarked, "and Mr. Ruston
triumphs!"

Tom's manner betrayed intense relief, but he was still perturbed.

"We're having a precious lot of Ruston," he observed, leaning against
the mantelpiece and putting his hands in his pockets.

"_I_ like him," said Maggie Dennison.

"Those are the orders, are they?" asked Tom with a rather wry smile.

"Yes," she answered, smiling at Tom's smile. It amused her when he put
her manner into words.

"Then we all like him," said Tom, and, feeling quite secure now, he
added, "Mrs. Cormack said we should, which is rather against him."

"Oh, Berthe's a silly woman. Never mind her. Harry likes him too."

"Lucky for Ruston he does. Your husband's a useful friend. I fancy most
of Ruston's friends are of the useful variety."

"And why shouldn't we be useful to him?"

"On the contrary, it seems our destiny," grumbled Tom, whose destiny
appeared not to please him.




                              CHAPTER IV.

                          TWO YOUNG GENTLEMEN.


Lady Valentine was the widow of a baronet of good family and respectable
means; the one was to be continued and the other absorbed by her son,
young Sir Walter, now an Oxford undergraduate and just turned twenty-one
years of age. Lady Valentine had a jointure, and Marjory a pretty face.
The remaining family assets were a country-house of moderate dimensions
in the neighbourhood of Maidenhead, and a small flat in Cromwell Road.
Lady Valentine deplored the rise of the plutocracy, and had sometimes
secretly hoped that a plutocrat would marry her daughter. In other
respects she was an honest and unaffected woman.

Young Sir Walter, however, had his own views for his sister, and young
Sir Walter, when he surveyed the position which the laws and customs of
the realm gave him, was naturally led to suppose that his opinion had
some importance. He was hardly responsible for the error, and very
probably Mr. Ruston would have been better advised had his bearing
towards the young man not indicated so very plainly that the error was
an error. But in the course of the visits to Cromwell Road, which Ruston
found time to pay in the intervals of floating the Omofaga Company--and
he was a man who found time for many things--this impression of his made
itself tolerably evident, and, consequently, Sir Walter entertained
grave doubts whether Ruston were a gentleman. And, if a fellow is not a
gentleman, what, he asked, do brains and all the rest of it go for?
Moreover, how did the chap live? To which queries Marjory answered that
"Oxford boys" were very silly--a remark which embittered, without in the
least elucidating, the question.

Almost everybody has one disciple who looks up to him as master and
mentor, and, ill as he was suited to such a post, Evan Haselden filled
it for Walter Valentine. Evan had been in his fourth year when Walter
was a freshman, and the reverence engendered in those days had been
intensified when Evan had become, first, secretary to a minister and
then, as he showed diligence and aptitude, a member of Parliament. Evan
was a strong Tory, but payment of members had an unholy attraction for
him; this indication of his circumstances may suffice. Men thought him a
promising youth, women called him a nice boy, and young Sir Walter held
him for a statesman and a man of the world.

Seeing that what Sir Walter wanted was an unfavourable opinion of
Ruston, he could not have done better than consult his respected friend.
Juggernaut--Adela Ferrars was pleased with the nickname, and it began to
be repeated--had been crushing Evan in one or two little ways lately,
and he did it with an unconsciousness that increased the brutality.
Besides displacing him from the position he wished to occupy at more
than one social gathering, Ruston, being in the Lobby of the House one
day (perhaps on Omofaga business), had likened the pretty (it was his
epithet) young member, as he sped with a glass of water to his party
leader, to Ganymede in a frock coat--a description, Evan felt, injurious
to a serious politician.

"A gentleman?" he said, in reply to young Sir Walter's inquiry. "Well,
everybody's a gentleman now, so I suppose Ruston is."

"I call him an unmannerly brute," observed Walter, "and I can't think
why mother and Marjory are so civil to him."

Evan shook his head mournfully.

"You meet the fellow everywhere," he sighed.

"Such an ugly mug as he's got too," pursued young Sir Walter. "But
Marjory says it's full of character."

"Character! I should think so. Enough to hang him on sight," said Evan
bitterly.

"He's been a lot to our place. Marjory seems to like him. I say,
Haselden, do you remember what you spoke of after dinner at the Savoy
the other day?"

Evan nodded, looking rather embarrassed; indeed he blushed, and little
as he liked doing that, it became him very well.

"Did you mean it? Because, you know, I should like it awfully."

"Thanks, Val, old man. Oh, rather, I meant it."

Young Sir Walter lowered his voice and looked cautiously round--they
were in the club smoking-room.

"Because I thought, you know, that you were rather--you know--Adela
Ferrars?"

"Nothing in that, only _pour passer le temps_," Evan assured him with
that superb man-of-the-worldliness.

It was a pity that Adela could not hear him. But there was more to
follow.

"The truth is," resumed Evan--"and, of course, I rely on your discretion,
Val--I thought there might be a--an obstacle."

Young Sir Walter looked knowing.

"When you were good enough to suggest what you did--about your sister--I
doubted for a moment how such a thing would be received by--well, at a
certain house."

"Oh!"

"I shouldn't wonder if you could guess."

"N--no, I don't think so."

"Well, it doesn't matter where."

"Oh, but I say, you might as well tell me. Hang it, I've learnt to hold
my tongue."

"You hadn't noticed it? That's all right. I'm glad to hear it," said
Evan, whose satisfaction was not conspicuous in his tone.

"I'm so little in town, you see," said Walter tactfully.

"Well--for heaven's sake, don't let it go any farther--Curzon Street."

"What! Of course! Mrs.----"

"All right, yes. But I've made up my mind. I shall drop all that. Best,
isn't it?"

Walter nodded a sagacious assent.

"There was never anything in it, really," said Evan, and he was not
displeased with his friend's incredulous expression. It is a great
luxury to speak the truth and yet not be believed.

"Now, what you propose," continued Evan, "is most--but, I say, Val, what
does she think?"

"She likes you--and you'll have all my influence," said the Head of the
Family in a tone of importance.

"But how do you know she likes me?" insisted Evan, whose off-hand air
gave place to a manner betraying some trepidation.

"I don't know for certain, of course. And, I say, Haselden, I believe
mother's got an idea in her head about that fellow Ruston."

"The devil! That brute! Oh, hang it, Val, she can't--your sister, I
mean--I tell you what, I shan't play the fool any longer."

Sir Walter cordially approved of increased activity, and the two young
gentlemen, having settled one lady's future and disposed of the claims
of two others to their complete satisfaction, betook themselves to
recreation.

Evan was not, however, of opinion that anything in the conversation
above recorded, imposed upon him the obligation of avoiding entirely
Mrs. Dennison's society. On the contrary, he took an early opportunity
of going to see her. His attitude towards her was one of considerably
greater deference than Sir Walter understood it to be, and he had a high
idea of the value of her assistance. And he did not propose to deny
himself such savour of sentiment as the lady would allow; and she
generally allowed a little. He intended to say nothing about Ruston, but
as it happened that Mrs. Dennison's wishes set in an opposing direction,
he had not been long in the drawing room at Curzon Street before he
found himself again with the name of his enemy on his lips. He spoke
with refreshing frankness and an engaging confidence in his hostess'
sympathy. Mrs. Dennison had no difficulty in seeing that he had a
special reason for his bitterness.

"Is it only because he called you Ganymede? And it's a very good name
for you, Mr. Haselden."

To be compared to Ganymede in private by a lady and in public by a
scoffer, are things very different. Evan smiled complacently.

"There's more than that, isn't there?" asked Mrs. Dennison.

Evan admitted that there was more, and, in obedience to some skilful
guidance, he revealed what there was more--what beyond mere offended
dignity--between himself and Mr. Ruston. He had to complain of no lack
of interest on the part of his listener. Mrs. Dennison questioned him
closely as to his grounds for anticipating Ruston's rivalry. The idea
was evidently quite new to her; and Evan was glad to detect her
reluctance to accept it--she must think as he did about Willie Ruston.
The tangible evidence appeared on examination reassuringly small, and
Evan, by a strange conversion, found himself driven to defend his
apprehensions by insisting on just that power of attraction in his foe
which he had begun by denying altogether. But that, Mrs. Dennison
objected, only showed, even if it existed, that Marjory might like
Ruston, not that Ruston would return her liking. On the whole Mrs.
Dennison comforted him, and, dismissing Ruston from the discussion, said
with a smile,

"So you're thinking of settling down already, are you?"

"I say, Mrs. Dennison, you've always been awfully good to me; I wonder
if you'd help me in this?"

"How could I help you?"

"Oh, lots of ways. Well, for instance, old Lady Valentine doesn't ask me
there often. You see, I haven't got any money."

"Poor boy! Of course you haven't. Nice young men never have any money."

"So I don't get many chances of seeing her."

"And I might arrange meetings for you? That's how I could help? Now, why
should I help?"

Evan was encouraged by this last question, put in his friend's
doubtfully-serious doubtfully-playful manner.

"It needn't," he said, in a tone rather more timid than young Sir Walter
would have expected, "make any difference to our friendship, need it? If
it meant that----"

The sentence was left in expressive incompleteness.

Mrs. Dennison wanted to laugh; but why should she hurt his feelings? He
was a pleasant boy, and, in spite of his vanity, really a clever one. He
had been a little spoilt; that was all. She turned her laugh in another
direction.

"Berthe Cormack would tell you that it would be sure to intensify it,"
she said. "Seriously, I shan't hate you for marrying, and I don't
suppose Marjory will hate me."

"Then" (Mrs. Dennison had to smile at that little word), "you'll help
me?"

"Perhaps," said Mrs. Dennison, allowing her smile to become manifest.

"You won't be against me?"

"Perhaps not."

"Good-bye," said Evan, pressing her hand.

He had enjoyed himself very much, and Mrs. Dennison was glad that she
had been good-natured, and had not laughed.

"Good-bye, and I hope you'll be very happy, if you succeed.
And--Evan--don't kill Mr. Ruston!"

The laugh came at last, but he was out of the door in time, and Mrs.
Dennison had no leisure to enjoy it fully, for, the moment her visitor
was gone, Mr. Belford and Lord Semingham were announced. They came
together, seeking Harry Dennison. There was a "little hitch" of some
sort in the affairs of the Omofaga Company--nothing of consequence, said
Mr. Belford reassuringly. Mrs. Dennison explained that Harry Dennison
had gone off to call on Mr. Ruston.

"Oh, then he knows by now," said Semingham in a tone of relief.

"And it'll be all right," added Belford contentedly.

"Mr. Belford," said Mrs. Dennison, "I'm living in an atmosphere of
Omofaga. I eat it, and drink it, and wear it, and breathe it. And, what
in the end, is it?"

"Ask Ruston," interposed Semingham.

"I did; but I don't think he told me."

"But surely, my dear Mrs. Dennison, your husband takes you into his
confidence?" suggested Mr. Belford.

Mrs. Dennison smiled, as she replied,

"Oh, yes, I know what you're doing. But I want to know why you're doing
it. I don't believe you'll ever get anything out of it, you know."

"Oh, directors always get something," protested Semingham. "Penal
servitude sometimes, but always something."

"I've never had such implicit faith in any undertaking in my life,"
asserted Mr. Belford. "And I know that your husband shares my views.
It's bound to be the greatest success of the day. Ah, here's Dennison!"

Harry came in wiping his brow. Belford rushed to him, and drew him to
the window, button-holing him with decision. Lord Semingham smiled
lazily and pulled his whisker.

"Don't you want to hear the news?" Mrs. Dennison asked.

"No! He's been to Ruston."

Mrs. Dennison looked at him for an instant with something rather like
scorn in her eye. Lord Semingham laughed.

"I'm not quite as bad as that, really," he said.

"And the others?" she asked, leaning forward and taking care that her
voice did not reach the other pair.

"He turns Belford round his fingers."

"And Mr. Carlin?"

"In his pocket."

Mrs. Dennison cast a glance towards the window.

"Don't go on," implored Semingham, half-seriously.

"And my husband?" she asked in a still lower voice.

Lord Semingham protested with a gesture against such cross-examination.

"Surely it's a good thing for me to know?" she said.

"Well--a great influence."

"Thank you."

There was a pause for an instant. Then she rose with a laugh and rang
the bell for tea.

"I hope he won't ruin us all," she said.

"I've got Bessie's settlement," observed Lord Semingham; and he added
after a moment's pause, "What's the matter? I thought you were a
thoroughgoing believer."

"I'm a woman," she answered. "If I were a man----"

"You'd be the prophet, not the disciple, eh?"

She looked at him, and then across to the couple by the window.

"To do Belford justice," remarked Semingham, reading her glance, "he
never admits that he isn't a great man--though surely he must know it."

"Is it better to know it, or not to know it?" she asked, restlessly
fingering the teapot and cups which had been placed before her. "I
sometimes think that if you resolutely refuse to know it, you can alter
it."

Belford's name had been the only name mentioned in the conversation; yet
Semingham knew that she was not thinking of Belford nor of him.

"I knew it about myself very soon," he said. "It makes a man better to
know it, Mrs. Dennison."

"Oh, yes--better," she answered impatiently.

The two men came and joined them. Belford accepted a cup of tea, and, as
he took it, he said to Harry, continuing their conversation,

"Of course, I know his value; but, after all, we must judge for
ourselves."

"Of course," acquiesced Harry, handing him bread-and-butter.

"We are the masters," pursued Belford.

Mrs. Dennison glanced at him, and a smile so full of meaning--of meaning
which it was as well Mr. Belford should not see--appeared on her face,
that Lord Semingham deftly interposed his person between them, and said,
with apparent seriousness,

"Oh, he mustn't think he can do just what he likes with us."

"I am entirely of your opinion," said Belford, with a weighty nod.

After tea, Lord Semingham walked slowly back to his own house. He had a
trick of stopping still, when he fell into thought, and he was
motionless on the pavement of Piccadilly more than once on his way home.
The last time he paused for nearly three minutes, till an acquaintance,
passing by, clapped him on the back, and inquired what occupied his
mind.

"I was thinking," said Semingham, laying his forefinger on his friend's
arm, "that if you take what a clever man really is, and add to it what a
clever woman who is interested in him thinks he is, you get a most
astonishing person."

The friend stared. The speculation seemed hardly pressing enough to
excuse a man for blocking the pavement of Piccadilly.

"If, on the other hand," pursued Semingham, "you take what an ordinary
man isn't, and add all that a clever woman thinks he isn't, you get----"

"Hadn't we better go on, old fellow?" asked the friend.

"No, I think we'd better not," said Semingham, starting to walk again.




                               CHAPTER V.

                        A TELEGRAM TO FRANKFORT.


The success of Lady Valentine's Saturday to Monday party at Maidenhead
was spoilt by the unscrupulous, or (if the charitable view be possible)
the muddle-headed conduct of certain eminent African chiefs--so small is
the world, so strong the chain of gold (or shares) that binds it
together. The party was marred by Willie Ruston's absence; and he was
away because he had to go to Frankfort, and he had to go to Frankfort
because of that little hitch in the affairs of the Omofaga. The hitch
was, in truth, a somewhat grave one, and it occurred, most annoyingly,
immediately after a gathering, marked by uncommon enthusiasm and
composed of highly influential persons, had set the impress of approval
on the scheme. On the following morning, it was asserted that the said
African chiefs, from whom Ruston and his friends derived their title to
Omofaga, had acted in a manner that belied the character for honesty and
simplicity in commercial matters (existing side by side with intense
savagery and cruelty in social and political life) that Mr. Foster
Belford had attributed to them at the great meeting. They had, it was
said, sold Omofaga several times over in small parcels, and twice, at
least, _en bloc_--once to the Syndicate (from whom the Company was
acquiring it) and once to an association of German capitalists. The
writer of the article, who said that he knew the chiefs well, went so
far as to maintain that any person provided with a few guns and a dozen
or so bottles of ardent spirits could return from Omofaga with a
portmanteau full of treaties, and this facility in obtaining the article
could not, in accordance with the law of supply and demand, do other
than gravely affect the value of it. Willie Ruston was inclined to make
light of this disclosure; indeed, he attributed it to a desire--natural
but unprincipled--on the part of certain persons to obtain Omofaga
shares at less than their high intrinsic value; he called it a "bear
dodge" and sundry other opprobrious names, and snapped his fingers at
all possible treaties in the world except his own. Once let him set his
foot in Omofaga, and short would be the shrift of rival claims,
supposing them to exist at all! But the great house of Dennison, Sons &
Company, could not go on in this happy-go-lucky fashion--so the senior
partner emphatically told Harry Dennison--they were already, in his
opinion, deep enough in this affair; if they were to go any deeper, this
matter of the association of German capitalists must be inquired into.
The house had not only its money, but its credit and reputation to look
after; it could not touch any doubtful business, nor could it be left
with a block of Omofagas on its hands. In effect they were trusting too
much to this Mr. Ruston, for he, and he alone, was their security in the
matter. Not another step would the house move till the German
capitalists were dissolved into thin air. So Willie Ruston packed his
portmanteau--likely enough the very one that had carried the treaties
away from Omofaga--and went to Frankfort to track the German capitalists
to their lair. Meanwhile, the issue of the Omofaga was postponed, and
Mr. Carlin was set a-telegraphing to Africa.

Thus it also happened that, contrary to her fixed intention, Lady
Valentine was left with a bedroom to spare, and with no just or
producible reason whatever for refusing her son's request that Evan
Haselden might occupy it. This, perhaps, should, in the view of all true
lovers, be regarded as an item on the credit side of the African chiefs'
account, though in the hostess' eyes it aggravated their offence. Adela
Ferrars, Mr. Foster Belford and Tom Loring, who positively blessed the
African chiefs, were the remaining guests.

All parties cannot be successful, and, if truth be told, this of Lady
Valentine's was no conspicuous triumph. Belford and Loring quarrelled
about Omofaga, for Loring feared (he used that word) that there might be
a good deal in the German treaties, and Belford was loud-mouthed in
declaring there could be nothing. Marjory and her brother had a "row"
because Marjory, on the Saturday afternoon, would not go out in the
Canadian canoe with Evan, but insisted on taking a walk with Mr. Belford
and hearing all about Omofaga. Finally, Adela and Tom Loring had a
rather serious dissension because--well, just because Tom was so
intolerably stupid and narrow-minded and rude. That was Adela's own
account of it, given in her own words, which seems pretty good
authority.

The unfortunate discussion began with an expression of opinion from Tom.
They were lounging very comfortably down stream in a broad-bottomed
boat. It was a fine still evening and a lovely sunset. It was then most
wanton of Tom--even although he couched his remark in a speciously
general form--to say,

"I wonder at fellows who spend their life worming money out of other
people for wild-cat schemes instead of taking to some honest trade."

There was a pause. Then Adela fitted her glasses on her nose, and
observed, with a careful imitation of Tom's forms of expression,

"I wonder at fellows who drift through life in subordinate positions
without the--the _spunk_--to try and do anything for themselves."

"Women have no idea of honesty."

"Men are such jealous creatures."

"I'm not jealous of him," Tom blurted out.

"Of who?" asked Adela.

She was keeping the cooler of the pair.

"Confound those beastly flies," said Tom, peevishly. There was a fly or
two about, but Adela smiled in a superior way. "I suppose I've some
right to express an opinion," continued Tom. "You know what I feel about
the Dennisons, and--well, it's not only the Dennisons."

"Oh! the Valentines?"

"Blow the Valentines!" said Tom, very ungratefully, inasmuch as he sat
in their boat and had eaten their bread.

He bent over his sculls, and Adela looked at him with a doubtful little
smile. She thought Tom Loring, on the whole, the best man she knew, the
truest and loyalest; but, these qualities are not everything, and it
seemed as if he meant to be secretary to Harry Dennison all his life. Of
course he had no money, there was that excuse; but to some men want of
money is a reason, not for doing nothing, but for attempting everything;
it had struck Willie Ruston in that light. Therefore she was at times
angry with Tom--and all the more angry the more she admired him.

"You do me the honour to be anxious on my account?" she asked very
stiffly.

"He asked me how much money you had the other day."

"Oh, you're insufferable; you really are. Do you always tell women that
men care only for their money?"

"It's not a bad thing to tell them when it's true."

"I call this the very vulgarest dispute I was ever entrapped into."

"It's not my fault. It's----Hullo!"

His attention was arrested by Lady Valentine's footman, who stood on the
bank, calling "Mr. Loring, sir," and holding up a telegram.

"Thank goodness, we're interrupted," said Adela. "Row ashore, Mr.
Loring."

Loring obeyed, and took his despatch. It was from Harry Dennison, and he
read it aloud.

    "Can you come up? News from Frankfort."

"I must go," said Tom.

"Oh, yes. If you're not there, Mr. Ruston will do something dreadful,
won't he? I should like to come too. News from Frankfort would be more
interesting than views from Mr. Belford."

They parted without any approach towards a reconciliation. Tom was
hopelessly sulky, Adela persistently flippant. The shadow of Omofaga lay
heavy on Lady Valentine's party, and still shrouded Tom Loring on his
way to town.

The important despatch from Frankfort had come in cipher, and when Tom
arrived in Curzon Street, he found Mr. Carlin, who had been sent for to
read it, just leaving the house. The men nodded to one another, and
Carlin hastily exclaimed,

"You must reassure Dennison! You can do it!" and leapt into a hansom.

Tom smiled. If the progress of Omofaga depended on encouragement from
him, Omofaga would remain in primitive barbarism, though missionaries
fell thick as the leaves in autumn.

Harry Dennison was walking up and down the library; his hair was
roughened and his appearance indicative of much unrest; his wife sat in
an armchair, looking at him and listening to Lord Semingham, who,
poising a cigarette between his fingers, was putting, or trying to put,
a meaning to Ruston's message.

    "Position critical. Must act at once. Will you give me a free
    hand? If not, wire how far I may go."

That was how it ran when faithfully interpreted by Mr. Carlin.

"You see," observed Lord Semingham, "it's clearly a matter of money."

Tom nodded.

"Of course it is," said he; "it's not likely to be a question of
anything else."

"Therefore the Germans have something worth paying for," continued
Semingham.

"Well," amended Tom, "something Ruston thinks it worth his while to pay
for, anyhow."

"That is to say they have treaties touching, or purporting to touch,
Omofaga."

"And," added Harry Dennison, who did not lack a certain business
shrewdness, "probably their Government behind them to some extent."

Tom flung himself into a chair.

"The thing's monstrous," he pronounced. "Semingham and you, Dennison,
are, besides himself--and he's got nothing--the only people responsible
up to now. And he asks you to give him an unlimited credit without
giving you a word of information! It's the coolest thing I ever heard of
in all my life."

"Of course he means the Company to pay in the end," Semingham reminded
the hostile critic.

"Time enough to talk of the Company when we see it," retorted Tom, with
an aggressive scepticism.

"Position critical! Hum. I suppose their treaties must be worth
something," pursued Semingham. "Dennison, I can't be drained dry over
this job."

Harry Dennison shook his head in a puzzled fashion.

"Carlin says it's all right," he remarked.

"Of course he does!" exclaimed Tom impatiently. "Two and two make five
for him if Ruston says they do."

"Well, Tom, what's your advice?" asked Semingham.

"You must tell him to do nothing till he's seen you, or at least sent
you full details of the position."

The two men nodded. Mrs. Dennison rose from her chair, walked to the
window, and stood looking out.

"Loring just confirms what I thought," said Semingham.

"He says he must act at once," Harry reminded them; he was still
wavering, and, as he spoke, he glanced uneasily at his wife; but there
was nothing to show that she even heard the conversation.

"Oh, he hates referring to anybody," said Tom. "He's to have a free
hand, and you're to pay the bill. That's his programme, and a very
pretty one it is--for him."

Tom's _animus_ was apparent, and Lord Semingham laughed gently.

"Still, you're right in substance," he conceded when the laugh was
ended, and as he spoke he drew a sheet of notepaper towards him and took
up a pen.

"We'd better settle just what to say," he observed. "Carlin will be back
in half an hour, and we promised to have it ready for him. What you
suggest seems all right, Loring."

Tom nodded. Harry Dennison stood stock still for an instant and then
said, with a sigh,

"I suppose so. He'll be furious--and I hope to God we shan't lose the
whole thing."

Lord Semingham's pen-point was in actual touch with the paper before
him, when Mrs. Dennison suddenly turned round and faced them. She rested
one hand on the window-sash, and held the other up in a gesture which
demanded attention.

"Are you really going to back out now?" she asked in a very quiet voice,
but with an intonation of contempt that made all the three men raise
their heads with the jerk of startled surprise. Lord Semingham checked
the movement of his pen, and leant back in his chair, looking at her.
Her face was a little flushed and she was breathing quickly.

"My dear," said Harry Dennison very apologetically, "do you think you
quite understand----?"

But Tom Loring's patience was exhausted. His interview with Adela left
him little reserve of toleration; and the discovery of another and even
worse case of Rustomania utterly overpowered his discretion.

"Mrs. Dennison," he said, "wants us to deliver ourselves, bound hand and
foot, to this fellow."

"Well, and if I do?" she demanded, turning on him. "Can't you even
follow, when you've found a man who can lead?"

And then, conscious perhaps of having been goaded to an excess of warmth
by Tom's open scorn, she turned her face away.

"Lead, yes! Lead us to ruin!" exclaimed Tom.

"You won't be ruined, anyhow," she retorted quickly, facing round on him
again, reckless in her anger how she might wound him.

"Tom's anxious for us, Maggie," her husband reminded her, and he laid
his hand on Tom Loring's shoulder.

Tom's excitement was not to be soothed.

"Why are we all to be his instruments?" he demanded angrily.

"I should be proud to be," she said haughtily.

Her husband smiled in an uneasy effort after nonchalance, and Lord
Semingham shot a quick glance at her out of his observant eyes.

"I should be proud of a friend like you if I were Ruston," he said
gently, hoping to smooth matters a little.

Mrs. Dennison ignored his attempt.

"Can't you see?" she asked. "Can't you see that he's a man to--to do
things? It's enough for us if we can help him."

She had forgotten her embarrassment; she spoke half in contempt, half in
entreaty, wholly in an earnest urgency, that made her unconscious of any
strangeness in her zeal. Harry looked uncomfortable. Semingham with a
sigh blew a cloud of smoke from his cigarette.

Tom Loring sat silent. He stretched out his legs to their full length,
rested the nape of his neck on the chair-back, and stared up at the
ceiling. His attitude eloquently and most rudely asserted folly--almost
lunacy--in Mrs. Dennison. She noticed it and her eyes flashed, but she
did not speak to him. She looked at Semingham and surprised an
expression in his eyes that made her drop her own for an instant; she
knew very well what he was thinking--what a man like him would think.
But she recovered herself and met his glance boldly.

Harry Dennison sat down and slowly rubbed his brow with his
handkerchief. Lord Semingham took up the pen and balanced it between his
fingers. There was silence in the room for full three minutes. Then came
a loud knock at the hall door.

"It's Carlin," said Harry Dennison.

No one else spoke, and for another moment there was silence. The steps
of the butler and the visitor were already audible in the hall when Lord
Semingham, with his own shrug and his own smile, as though nothing in
the world were worth so much dispute or so much bitterness, said to
Dennison,

"Hang it! Shall we chance it, Harry?"

Mrs. Dennison made one swift step forward towards him, her face all
alight; but she stopped before she reached the table and turned to her
husband. At the moment Carlin was announced. He entered with a rush of
eagerness. Tom Loring did not move. Semingham wrote on his paper,--

    "Use your discretion, but make every effort to keep down
    expenses. Wire progress."

"Will that do?" he asked, handing the paper to Harry Dennison and
leaning back with a smile on his face; and, though he handed the paper
to Harry, he looked at Mrs. Dennison.

Mrs. Dennison was standing by her husband now, her arm through his. As
he read she read also. Then she took the paper from his yielding hand
and came and bent over the table, shoulder to shoulder with Lord
Semingham. Taking the pen from his fingers, she dipped it in the ink,
and with a firm dash she erased all save the first three words of the
message. This done, she looked round into Semingham's face with a smile
of triumph.

"Well, it'll be cheap to send, anyhow," said he.

He got up and motioned Carlin to take his place.

Mrs. Dennison walked back to the window, and he followed her there. They
heard Carlin's cry of delight, and Harry Dennison beginning to make
excuses and trying to find business reasons for what had been done.
Suddenly Tom Loring leapt to his feet and strode swiftly out of the
room, slamming the door behind him. Mrs. Dennison heard the sound with a
smile of content. She seemed to have no misgivings and no regrets.

"Really," said Lord Semingham, sticking his eye-glass in his eye and
regarding her closely, "you ought to be the Queen of Omofaga."

With her slim fingers she began to drum gently on the window-pane.

"I think there's a king already," she said, looking out into the street.

"Oh, yes, a king," he answered with a laugh.

Mrs. Dennison looked round. He did not stop laughing, and presently she
laughed just a little herself.

"Oh, of course, it's always that in a woman, isn't it?" she asked
sarcastically.

"Generally," he answered, unashamed.

She grew grave, and looked in his face almost--so it seemed to him--as
though she sought there an answer to something that puzzled her. He gave
her none. She sighed and drummed on the window again; then she turned to
him with a sudden bright smile.

"I don't care; I'm glad I did it," she said defiantly.




                              CHAPTER VI.

                           WHOSE SHALL IT BE?


Probably no one is always wrong; at any rate, Mr. Otto Heather was right
now and then, and he had hit the mark when he accused Willie Ruston of
"commercialism." But he went astray when he concluded, _per saltum_,
that the object of his antipathy was a money-grubbing, profit-snatching,
upper-hand-getting machine, and nothing else in the world. Probably,
again, no one ever was. Ruston had not only feelings, but also what many
people consider a later development--a conscience. And, whatever the
springs on which his conscience moved, it acted as a restraint upon him.
Both his feelings and his conscience would have told him that it would
not do for him to delude his friends or the public with a scheme which
was a fraud. He would have delivered this inner verdict in calm and
temperate terms; it would have been accompanied by no disgust, no
remorse, no revulsion at the idea having made its way into his mind; it
was just that, on the whole, such a thing wouldn't do. The vagueness of
the phrase faithfully embodied the spirit of the decision, for whether
it wouldn't do, because it was in itself unseemly, or merely because, if
found out, it would look unseemly, was precisely one of those curious
points with which Mr. Ruston's practical intellect declined to trouble
itself. If Omofaga had been a fraud, then Ruston would have whistled it
down the wind. But Omofaga was no fraud--in his hands at least no fraud.
For, while he believed in Omofaga to a certain extent, Willie Ruston
believed in himself to an indefinite, perhaps an infinite, extent. He
thought Omofaga a fair security for anyone's money, but himself a superb
one. Omofaga without him--or other people's Omofagas--might be a
promising speculation; add him, and Omofaga became a certainty. It will
be seen, then, that Mr. Heather's inspiration had soon failed--unless,
that is, machines can see visions and dream dreams, and melt down hard
facts in crucibles heated to seven times in the fires of imagination.
But a man may do all this, and yet not be the passive victim of his
dreams and imaginings. The old buccaneers--and Adela Ferrars had thought
Ruston a buccaneer modernised--dreamt, but they sailed and fought too;
and they sailed and fought and won because they dreamt. And if many of
their dreams were tinted with the gleam of gold, they were none the less
powerful and alluring for that.

Ruston had laid the whole position before Baron von Geltschmidt of
Frankfort, with--as it seemed--the utmost candour. He and his friends
were not deeply committed in the matter; there was, as yet, only a small
syndicate; of course they had paid something for their rights, but, as
the Baron knew (and Willie's tone emphasised the fact that he must know)
the actual sums paid out of pocket in these cases were not of staggering
magnitude; no company was formed yet; none would be, unless all went
smoothly. If the Baron and his friends were sure of their ground, and
preferred to go on--why, he and his friends were not eager to commit
themselves to a long and arduous contest. There must, he supposed, be a
give-and-take between them.

"It looks," he said, "as far as I can judge, as if either we should have
to buy you out, or you would have to buy us out."

"Perhaps," suggested the Baron, blinking lazily behind his gold
spectacles, "we could get rid of you without buying you out."

"Oh, if you drove us to it, by refusing to treat, we should have a shot
at that too, of course," laughed Willie Ruston, swallowing a glass of
white wine. The Baron had asked him to discuss the matter over luncheon.

"It seems to me," observed the Baron, lighting a cigar, "that people are
rather cold about speculations just now."

"I should think so; but this is not a speculation; it's a certainty."

"Why do you tell me that, when you want to get rid of me?"

"Because you won't believe it. Wasn't that Bismarck's way?"

"You are not Bismarck--and a certainty is what the public thinks one."

"Is that philosophy or finance?" asked Ruston, laughing again.

The Baron, who had in his day loved both the subjects referred to, drank
a glass of wine and chuckled as he delivered himself of the following
doctrine:

"What the public thinks a certainty, is a certainty for the public--that
would be philosophy, eh?"

"I believe so. I never read much, and your extract doesn't raise my idea
of its value."

"But what the public thinks a certainty, is a certainty--for the
promotors--that is finance. You see the difference is simple."

"And the distinction luminous. This, Baron, seems to be the age of
finance."

"Ah, well, there are still honest men," said the Baron, with the
optimism of age.

"Yes, I'm one--and you're another."

"I'm much obliged. You've been in Omofaga?"

"Oh, yes. And you haven't, Baron."

"Friends of mine have."

"Yes. They came just after I left."

The Baron knew that this statement was true. As his study of Willie
Ruston progressed, he became inclined to think that it might be
important. Mere right (so far as such a thing could be given by prior
treaties) was not of much moment; but right and Ruston together might be
formidable. Now the Baron (and his friends were friends much in the way,
_mutatis mutandis_, that Mr. Wagg and Mr. Wenham were friends of the
Marquis of Steyne, and may therefore drop out of consideration) was old
and rich, and, by consequence, at a great disadvantage with a man who
was young and poor.

"I don't see the bearing of that," he observed, having paused for a
moment to consider all its bearings.

"It means that you can't have Omofaga," said Willie Ruston. "You were
too late, you see."

The Baron smoked and drank and laughed.

"You're a young fool, my boy--or something quite different," said he,
laying a hand on his companion's arm. Then he asked suddenly, "What
about Dennisons?"

"They're behind me if----"

"Well?"

"If you're not in front of me."

"But if I am, my son?" asked the Baron, almost caressingly.

"Then I leave for Omofaga by the next boat."

"Eh! And for what?"

"Never mind what. You'll find out when you come."

The Baron sighed and tugged his beard.

"You English!" said he. "Your Government won't help you."

"Damn my Government."

"You English!" said the Baron again, his tone struggling between
admiration and a sort of oppression, while his face wore the look a man
has who sees another push in front of him in a crowd, and wonders how
the fellow works his way through.

There was a long pause. Ruston lit his pipe, and, crossing his arms on
his breast, blinked at the sun; the Baron puffed away, shooting a glance
now and then at his young friend, then he asked,

"Well, my boy, what do you offer?"

"Shares," answered Ruston composedly.

The Baron laughed. The impudence of the offer pleased him.

"Yes, shares, of course. And besides?"

Willie Ruston turned to him.

"I shan't haggle," he announced. "I'll make you one offer, Baron, and
it's an uncommon handsome offer for a trunk of waste paper."

"What's the offer?" asked the Baron, smiling with rich subdued mirth.

"Fifty thousand down, and the same in shares fully paid."

"Not enough, my son."

"All right," and Mr. Ruston rose. "Much obliged for your hospitality,
Baron," he added, holding out his hand.

"Where are you going?" asked the Baron.

"Omofaga--_viâ_ London."

The Baron caught him by the arm, and whispered in his ear,

"There's not so much in it, first and last."

"Oh, isn't there? Then why don't you take the offer?"

"Is it your money?"

"It's good money. Come, Baron, you've always liked the safe side," and
Willie smiled down upon his host.

The Baron positively started. This young man stood over him and told him
calmly, face-to-face, the secret of his life. It was true. How he had
envied men of real nerve, of faith, of daring! But he had always liked
the safe side. Hence he was very rich--and a rather weary old man.

Two days later, Willie Ruston took a cab from Lord Semingham's, and
drove to Curzon Street. He arrived at twelve o'clock in the morning.
Harry Dennison had gone to a Committee at the House. The butler had just
told him so, when a voice cried from within,

"Is it you, Mr. Ruston?"

Mrs. Dennison was standing in the hall. He went in, and followed her
into the library.

"Well?" she asked, standing by the table, and wasting no time in formal
greetings.

"Oh, it's all right," said he.

"You got my telegram?"

"Your telegram, Mrs. Dennison?" said he with a smile.

"I mean--the telegram," she corrected herself, smiling in her turn.

"Oh, yes," said Ruston, and he took a step towards her. "I've seen Lord
Semingham," he added.

"Yes? And these horrid Germans are out of the way?"

"Yes; and Semingham is letting his shooting this year."

She laughed, and glanced at him as she asked,

"Then it cost a great deal?"

"Fifty thousand!"

"Oh, then we can't take Lord Semingham's shooting, or anybody else's.
Poor Harry!"

"He doesn't know yet?"

"Aren't you almost afraid to tell him, Mr. Ruston?"

"Aren't you, Mrs. Dennison?"

He smiled as he asked, and Mrs. Dennison lifted her eyes to his, and let
them dwell there.

"Why did you do it?" he asked.

"Will the money be lost?"

"Oh, I hope not; but money's always uncertain."

"The thing's not uncertain?"

"No; the thing's certain now."

She sat down with a sigh of satisfaction, and passed her hand over her
broad brow.

"Why did you do it?" Ruston repeated; and she laughed nervously.

"I hate going back," she said, twisting her hands in her lap.

He had asked her the question which she had been asking herself without
response.

He sat down opposite her, flinging his soft cloth hat--for he had not
been home since his arrival in London--on the table.

"What a bad hat!" said Mrs. Dennison, touching it with the end of a
forefinger.

"It's done a journey through Omofaga."

"Ah!" she laughed gently. "Dear old hat!"

"Thanks to you, it'll do another soon."

Mrs. Dennison sat up straight in her chair.

"You hope----?" she began.

"To be on my way in six months," he answered in solid satisfaction.

"And for long?"

"It must take time."

"What must?"

"My work there."

She rose and walked to the window, as she had when she was about to send
the telegram. Now also she was breathing quickly, and the flush, once so
rare on her cheeks, was there again.

"And we," she said in a low voice, looking out of the window, "shall
just hear of you once a year?"

"We shall have regular mails in no time," said he. "Once a year, indeed!
Once a month, Mrs. Dennison!"

With a curious laugh, she dashed the blind-tassel against the window. It
was not for the sake of hearing of her that he wanted the mails. With a
sudden impulse she crossed the room and stood opposite him.

"Do you care _that_," she asked, snapping her fingers, "for any soul
alive? You're delighted to leave us all and go to Omofaga!"

Willie Ruston seemed not to hear; he was mentally organizing the mail
service from Omofaga.

"I beg pardon?" he said, after a perceptible pause.

"Oh!" cried Maggie Dennison, and at last her tone caught his attention.

He looked up with a wrinkle of surprise on his brow.

"Why," said he, "I believe you're angry about something. You look just
as you did on--on the memorable occasion."

"Uh, we aren't all Carlins!" she exclaimed, carried away by her
feelings.

The least she had expected from him was grateful thanks; a homage tinged
with admiration was, in truth, no more than her due; if she had been an
ugly dull woman, yet she had done him a great service, and she was not
an ugly dull woman. But then neither was she Omofaga.

"If everybody was as good a fellow as old Carlin----" began Willie
Ruston.

"If everybody was as useful and docile, you mean; as good a tool for
you----"

At last it was too plain to be missed.

"Hullo!" he exclaimed. "What are you pitching into me for, Mrs.
Dennison?"

His words were ordinary enough, but at last he was looking at her, and
the mails of Omofaga were for a moment forgotten.

"I wish I'd never made them send the wretched telegram," she flashed out
passionately. "Much thanks I get!"

"You shall have a statue in the chief street of the chief town of----"

"How dare you! I'm not a girl to be chaffed."

The tears were standing in her eyes, as she threw herself back in a
chair. Willie Ruston got up and stood by her.

"You'll be proud of that telegram some day," he said, rather as though
he felt bound to pay her a compliment.

"Oh, you think that now?" she said, unconvinced of his sincerity.

"Yes. Though was it very difficult?" he asked with a sudden change of
tone most depreciatory of her exploit.

She glanced at him and smiled joyfully. She liked the depreciation
better than the compliment.

"Not a bit," she whispered, "for me."

He laughed slightly, and shut his lips close again. He began to
understand Mrs. Dennison better.

"Still, though it was easy for you, it was precious valuable to me," he
observed.

"And how you hate being obliged to me, don't you?"

He perceived that she understood him a little, but he smiled again as he
asked,

"Oh, but what made you do it, you know?"

"You mean you did? Mr. Ruston, I should like to see you at work in
Omofaga."

"Oh, a very humdrum business," said he, with a shrug.

"You'll have soldiers?"

"We shall call 'em police," he corrected, smiling.

"Yes; but they keep everybody down, and--and do as you order?"

"If not, I shall ask 'em why."

"And the natives?"

"Civilise 'em."

"You--you'll be governor?"

"Oh, dear, no. Local administrator."

She laughed in his face; and a grim smile from him seemed to justify
her.

"I'm glad I sent the telegram," she half-whispered, lying back in the
chair and looking up at him. "I shall have had something to do with all
that, shan't I? Do you want any more money?"

"Look here," said Willie Ruston, "Omofaga's mine. I'll find you another
place, if you like, when I've put this job through."

A luxury of pleasure rippled through her laugh. She darted out her hand
and caught his.

"No. I like Omofaga too!" she said, and as she said it, the door
suddenly opened, and in walked Tom Loring--that is to say--in Tom Loring
was about to walk; but when he saw what he did see, he stood still for a
moment, and then, without a single word, either of greeting or apology,
he turned his back, walked out again, and shut the door behind him. His
entrance and exit were so quick and sudden, that Mrs. Dennison had
hardly dropped Willie Ruston's hand before he was gone; she had
certainly not dropped it before he came.

Willie Ruston sat down squarely in a chair. Mrs. Dennison's hot mood had
been suddenly cooled. She would not ask him to go, but she glanced at
the hat that had been through Omofaga. He detected her.

"I shall stay ten minutes," he observed.

She understood and nodded assent. Very little was said during the ten
minutes. Mrs. Dennison seemed tired; her eyes dropped towards the
ground, and she reclined in her chair. Ruston was frowning and thrumming
at intervals on the table. But presently his brow cleared and he smiled.
Mrs. Dennison saw him from under her drooping lids.

"Well?" she asked in a petulant tone.

"I believe you were going to fight me for Omofaga."

"I don't know what I was doing."

"Is that fellow a fool?"

"He's a much better man than you'll ever be, Mr. Ruston. Really you
might go now."

"All right, I will. I'm going down to the city to see your husband and
Carlin."

"I'm afraid I've wasted your time."

She spoke with a bitterness which seemed impossible to miss. But he
appeared to miss it.

"Oh, not a bit, really," he assured her anxiously. "Good-bye," he added,
holding out his hand.

"Good-bye. I've shaken hands once."

He waited a moment to see if she would speak again, but she said
nothing. So he left her.

As he called a hansom, Mrs. Cormack was leaning over her balcony. She
took a little jewelled watch out of her pocket and looked at it.

"An hour and a quarter!" she cried. "And I know the poor man isn't at
home!"




                              CHAPTER VII.

                     AN ATTEMPT TO STOP THE WHEELS.


Miss Adela Ferrars lived in Queen's Gate, in company with her aunt, Mrs.
Topham. Mrs. Topham's husband had been the younger son of a peer of
ancient descent; and a practised observer might almost have detected the
fact in her manner, for she took her station in this life as seriously
as her position in the next, and, in virtue of it, assumed a
responsibility for the morals of her inferiors which betrayed a
considerable confidence in her own. But she was a good woman, and a
widow of the pattern most opposite to that of Mrs. Cormack. She dwelt
more truly in the grave of her husband than in Queen's Gate, and
permitted herself no recreations except such as may privily creep into
religious exercises and the ministrations of favourite clergymen; and it
is pleasant to think that she was very happy. As may be supposed,
however, Adela (who was a good woman in quite another way, and therefore
less congenial with her aunt than any mere sinner could have been) and
Mrs. Topham saw very little of one another, and would not have thought
of living together unless each had been able to supply what the other
wanted. Adela found money for the house, and Mrs. Topham lent the
shelter of her name to her niece's unprotected condition. There were
separate sitting-rooms for the two ladies, and, if rumour were true
(which, after all, it usually is not), a separate staircase for the
clergy.

Adela was in her drawing-room one afternoon when Lord Semingham was
announced. He appeared to be very warm, and he carried a bundle of
papers in his hand. Among the papers there was one of those little
smooth white volumes which epitomise so much of the joy and sorrow of
this transitory life. He gave himself a shake, as he sat down, and held
up the book.

"The car has begun to move," he observed.

"Juggernaut's?"

"Yes; and I have been to see my bankers. I take a trip to the seaside
instead of a moor this year, and have let my own pheasant shooting."

He paused and added,

"Dennison has not taken my shooting. They go to the seaside too--with
the children."

He paused again and concluded,

"The Omofaga prospectus will be out to-morrow."

Adela laughed.

"Bessie is really quite annoyed," remarked Lord Semingham. "I have
seldom seen her so perturbed--but I've sent Ruston to talk to her."

"And why did you do it?" asked Adela.

"I should like to tell you a little history," said he.

And he told her how Mrs. Dennison had sent a telegram to Frankfort. This
history was long, for Lord Semingham told it dramatically, as though he
enjoyed its quality. Yet Adela made no comment beyond asking,

"And wasn't she right?"

"Oh, for the Empire perhaps--for us, it means trips to the seaside."

He drew his chair a little nearer hers, and dropped his affectation of
comic plaintiveness.

"A most disgusting thing has happened in Curzon Street," he said. "Have
you heard?"

"No; I've seen nothing of Maggie lately. You've all been buried in
Omofaga."

"Hush! No words of ill-omen, please! Well, it's annoyed me immensely I
can't think what the foolish fellow means. Tom Loring's going."

"Tom--Loring--going?" she exclaimed with a punctuated pause between
every word. "What in the world for?"

"What is the ultimate cause of everything that happens to us now?" he
asked, sticking his glass in his eye.

Adela felt as though she were playing at some absurd game of questions
and answers, and must make her reply according to the rules.

"Oh, Mr. Ruston!" she said, with a grimace.

Her visitor nodded--as though he had been answered according to the
rules.

"Tom broke out in the most extraordinary manner. He said he couldn't
stay with Dennison, if Dennison let Ruston lead him by the nose
(_ipsissima verba_, my dear Adela), and told Ruston to his face that he
came for no good."

"Were you there?"

"Yes. The man seemed to choose the most public opportunity. Did you ever
hear such a thing?"

"He's mad about Mr. Ruston. He talked just the same way to me. What did
Harry Dennison say?"

"Harry went up to him and took his hand, and shook it, and, you know old
Harry's way, tried to smooth it all down, and get them to shake hands.
Then Ruston got up and said he'd go and leave them to settle it between
Tom and him. Oh, Ruston behaved very well. It was uncommonly awkward for
him, you know."

"Yes; and when he'd gone?"

"Harry told Tom that he must keep his engagements; but that, sooner than
lose him, he'd go no deeper. That was pretty handsome, I thought, but it
didn't suit Tom. 'I can't stay in the house while that fellow comes,' he
said."

"While he comes to the house?" cried Adela.

Lord Semingham nodded. "You've hit the point," he seemed to say, and he
went on,

"And then they both turned and looked at Maggie Dennison. She'd been
sitting there without speaking a single word the whole time. I couldn't
go--Harry wouldn't let me--so I got into a corner and looked at the
photograph book. I felt rather an ass, between ourselves, you know."

"And what did Maggie say?"

"Harry was looking as puzzled as an owl, and Tom as obstinate as a toad,
and both stared at her. She looked first at Harry, and then at Tom, and
smiled in that quiet way of hers. By the way, I never feel that I quite
understand----"

"Oh, never mind! Of course you don't. Go on."

"And then she said, 'What a fuss! I hope that after all this Omofaga
business is over Mr. Loring will come back to us.' Pretty straight for
Tom, eh? He turned crimson, and walked right out of the room, and she
sat down at the piano and began to play some infernal tune, and that
soft-hearted old baby, Harry, blew his nose, and damned the draught."

"And he's going?"

"Yes."

"But," she broke out, "how can he? He's got no money. What'll he live
on?"

"Harry offered him as much as he wanted; but he said he had some
savings, and wouldn't take a farthing. He said he'd write for papers, or
some such stuff."

"He's been with the Dennisons ever since--oh, years and years! Can't you
take him? He'd be awfully useful to you."

"My dear girl, I can't offer charity to Tom Loring," said Semingham, and
he added quickly, "No more can you, you know."

"I quarrelled with him desperately a week ago," said she mournfully.

"About Ruston?"

"Oh, yes. About Mr. Ruston, of course."

Lord Semingham whistled gently, and, after a pause, Adela leant forward
and asked,

"Do you feel quite comfortable about it?"

"Hang it, no! But I'm too deep in. I hope to heaven the public will
swallow it!"

"I didn't mean your wretched Company."

"Oh, you didn't?"

"No; I meant Curzon Street."

"It hardly lies in my mouth to blame Dennison, or his wife either. If
they've been foolish, so have I." Adela looked at him as if she thought
him profoundly unsatisfactory. He was vaguely conscious of her
depreciation, and added, "Ruston's not a rogue, you know."

"No. If I thought he was, I shouldn't be going to take shares in
Omofaga."

"You're not?"

"Oh, but I am!"

"Another spinster lady on my conscience! I shall certainly end in the
dock!" Lord Semingham took his hat and shook hands. Just as he got to
the door, he turned round, and, with an expression of deprecating
helplessness, fired a last shot. "Ruston came to see Bessie the other
day," he said. "The new mantle she's just invented is to be called--the
Omofaga: That is unless she changes it because of the moor. I suggested
the _Pis-aller_, but she didn't see it. She never does, you know.
Good-bye."

The moment he was gone, Adela put on her hat and drove to Curzon Street.
She found Mrs. Dennison alone, and opened fire at once.

"What have you done, Maggie?" she cried, flinging her gloves on the
table and facing her friend with accusing countenance.

Mrs. Dennison was smelling a rose; she smelt it a little longer, and
then replied with another question.

"Why can't men hate quietly? They must make a fuss. I can go on hating a
woman for years and never show it."

"We have the vices of servility," said Adela.

"Harry is a melancholy sight," resumed Mrs. Dennison. "He spends his
time looking for the blotting-paper; Tom Loring used to keep it, you
know."

Her tone deepened the expression of disapproval on Adela's face.

"I've never been so distressed about anything in my life," said she.

"Oh, my dear, he'll come back." As she spoke, a sudden mischievous smile
spread over her face. "You should hear Berthe Cormack on it!" she said.

"I don't want to hear Mrs. Cormack at all. I hate the woman--and I think
that I--at any rate--show it."

It surprised Adela to find her friend in such excellent spirits. The air
of listlessness, which was apt to mar her manner, and even to some
degree her appearance (for to look bored is not becoming), had entirely
vanished.

"You don't seem very sorry about poor Mr. Loring," Adela observed.

"Oh, I am; but Mr. Loring can't stop the wheels of the world. And it's
his own fault."

Adela sighed. It did not seem of consequence whose fault it was.

"I don't think I care much about the wheels of the world," she said.
"How are the children, Maggie?"

"Oh, splendid, and in great glee about the seaside"--and Mrs. Dennison
laughed.

"And about losing Tom Loring?"

"They cried at first."

"Does anyone ever do anything more than 'cry at first'?" exclaimed
Adela.

"Oh, my dear, don't be tragical, or cynical, or whatever you are being,"
said Maggie pettishly. "Mr. Loring has chosen to be very silly, and
there's an end of it. Have you seen the prospectus? Do you know Mr.
Ruston brought it to show me before it was submitted to Mr. Belford and
the others--the Board, I mean?"

"I think you see quite enough of Mr. Ruston," said Adela, putting up her
glass and examining Mrs. Dennison closely. She spoke coolly, but with a
nervous knowledge of her presumption.

Mrs. Dennison may have had a taste for diplomacy and the other arts of
government, but she was no diplomatist. She thought herself gravely
wronged by Adela's suggestion, and burst out angrily,

"Oh, you've been listening to Tom Loring!" and her heightened colour
seemed not to agree with the idea that, if Adela had listened, Tom had
talked of nothing but Omofaga. "I don't mind it from Berthe," Mrs.
Dennison continued, "but from you it's too bad. I suppose he told you
the whole thing? I declare I wasn't dreaming of anything of the kind; I
was just excited, and----"

"I haven't seen Mr. Loring," put in Adela as soon as she could.

"Then how do you know----?"

"Lord Semingham told me you quarrelled with Mr. Loring about Omofaga."

"Is that all?"

"Yes. Maggie, was there any more?"

"Do you want to quarrel with me too?"

"I believe Mr. Loring had good reasons."

"You must believe what you like," said Mrs. Dennison, tearing her rose
to pieces. "Yes, there was some more."

"What?" asked Adela, expecting to be told to mind her own business.

Mrs. Dennison flung away the rose and began to laugh.

"He found me holding Willie Ruston's hand and telling him I--liked
Omofaga! That's all."

"Holding his hand!" exclaimed Adela, justifiably scandalised and
hopelessly puzzled. "What did you do that for?"

"I don't know," said Mrs. Dennison. "It happened somehow as we were
talking. We got interested, you know."

Adela's next question was also one at which it was possible to take
offence; but she was careless now whether offence were taken or not.

"Are you and the children going to the seaside soon?"

"Oh, yes," rejoined her friend, still smiling. "We shall soon be deep in
pails and spades and bathing, and buckets and paddling, and a final
charming walk with Harry in the moonlight."

As the sentence went on, the smile became more fixed and less pleasant.

"You ought to be ashamed to talk like that," said Adela.

Mrs. Dennison walked up the room and down again.

"So I am," she said, pausing to look down on Adela, and then resuming
her walk.

"I wish to goodness this Omofaga affair--yes, and Mr. Ruston too--had
never been invented. It seems to set us all wrong."

"Wrong!" cried Mrs. Dennison. "Oh, yes, if it's wrong to have something
one can take a little interest in!"

"You're hopeless to-day, Maggie. I shall go away. What did you take his
hand for?"

"Nothing. I tell you I was excited."

"Well, I think he's a man one ought to keep cool with."

"Oh, he's cool enough. He'll keep you cool."

"But he didn't----"

"Oh, don't--pray don't!" cried Mrs. Dennison.

Adela took her leave; and, as luck would have it, opened the door just
as Tom Loring was walking downstairs with an enormous load of dusty
papers in his hands. She pulled the door close behind her hastily,
exclaiming,

"Why, I thought you'd gone!"

"So you've heard? I'm just putting things shipshape. I go this evening."

"Well, I'm sorry--still, for your sake, I'm glad."

"Why?"

"You may do something on your own account now."

"I don't want to do anything," said Tom obstinately.

"Come and see me some day. I've forgiven you, you know."

"So I will."

"Mr. Loring, are you going to say good-bye to Maggie?"

"I don't know. I suppose so." Then he added, detecting Adela's
unexpressed hope, "Oh, it's not a bit of use, you know."

Adela passed on, and, later, Loring, having finished his work and being
about to go, sought out Mrs. Dennison.

"You're determined to go, are you?" she asked, with the air of one who
surrenders before an inexplicable whim.

"Yes," said Tom. "You know I must go."

"Why?"

"I'm not a saint--nor a rogue; if I were either, I might stay."

"Or even if you were a sensible man," suggested Maggie Dennison.

"Being merely an honest man, I think I'll go. I've tried to put all
Harry's things right for him, and to make it as easy for him to get
along as I can."

"Can he find his papers and blue-books and things?"

"Oh, yes; and I got abstracts ready on all the things he cares about."

"He'll miss you horribly. Ah, well!"

"I suppose a little; but, really, I think he'll learn to get along----"

Mrs. Dennison interrupted with a laugh.

"Do you know," she asked, "what we remind me of? Why, of a husband and
wife separating, and wondering whether the children will miss poor
papa--though poor papa insists in going, and mamma is sure he must."

"I never mentioned the children," said Tom angrily.

"I know you didn't."

Tom looked at her for an instant.

"For God's sake," said he, "don't let him see that!"

"Oh, how you twist things!" she cried in impatient protest.

Tom only shook his head. The charge was not sincere.

"Good-bye, Tom," she went on after a pause. "I believe, some day or
other, you'll come back--or, at any rate, come and live next
door--instead of Berthe Cormack, you know. But I don't know in what
state you'll find us."

"I'd just like to tell you one thing, if I may," said Tom, resolutely
refusing to meet the softened look in her eyes with any answering
friendliness.

"Yes?"

"You've got one of the best fellows in the world for a husband."

"Well, I know that, I suppose, at least, as well as you do."

"That's all. Good-bye."

Without more he left her. She drew the window-curtain aside and watched
him get into his cab and be driven away. The house was very still. Her
husband was in his place at Westminster, and the children had gone to a
party. She went upstairs to the nursery, hoping to find something to
criticise; then to Harry's dressing-room, where she filled his
pin-cushion with pins and put fresh water to the flowers in the vase.
She could find no other offices of wife or mother to do, and she
presently found herself looking into Tom's room, which was very bare and
desolate, stripped of the homelike growth of a five years' tenancy. Her
excitement was over; she felt terribly like a child after a tantrum; she
flung open the window of the room and stood listening to the noise of
the town. It was the noise of happy people, who had plenty to do; or of
happier still, who did not want to do anything, and thus found content.
She turned away and walked downstairs with a step as heavy as physical
weariness brings with it. It came as a curious aggravation--light
itself, but gaining weight from its surroundings--that, for once in a
way, she had no engagements that evening. All the tide seemed to be
flowing by, leaving her behind high and dry on the shore. Even the
children had their party, even Harry his toy at Westminster; and Willie
Ruston was working might and main to give a good start to Omofaga. Only
of her had the world no need--and no heed.




                             CHAPTER VIII.

                         CONVERTS AND HERETICS.


Had Lord Semingham and Harry Dennison taken an opportunity which many
persons would have thought that they had a right to take, they might
have shifted the burden of the Baron's _douceur_ and of sundry other not
trifling expenses on to the shoulders of the public, and enjoyed their
moors that year after all; for at the beginning Omofaga obtained such a
moderate and reasonable "boom" as would have enabled them to perform the
operation known as "unloading" (and literary men must often admire the
terse and condensed expressiveness of "City" metaphors) with much profit
to themselves. But either they conceived this course of conduct to be
beneath them, or they were so firm of faith in Mr. Ruston that they
stood to their guns and their shares, and took their seats at the Board,
over which Mr. Foster Belford magniloquently presided, still possessed
of the strongest personal interest in the success of Omofaga. Lady
Semingham, having been made aware that Omofaga shares were selling at
forty shillings a piece, was quite unable to understand why Alfred and
Mr. Dennison did not sell all they had, and thereby procure moors or
whatever else they wanted. Willie Ruston had to be sent for again, and
when he told her that the same shares would shortly be worth five pounds
(which he did with the most perfect confidence), she was equally at a
loss to see why they were on sale to anybody who chose to pay forty
shillings. Ruston, who liked to make everybody a convert to his own
point of view, spent the best part of an afternoon conversing with the
little lady, but, when he came away, he left her placidly admiring the
Omofaga mantle which had just arrived from the milliner's, and promised
to create an immense sensation.

"I believe she's all gown," said he despairingly, at the Valentines in
the evening. "If you undressed her there'd be no one there."

"Well, there oughtn't to be many people," said young Sir Walter, with a
hearty laugh at his boyish joke.

"Walter, how can you!" cried Marjory.

This little conversation, trivial though it be, has its importance, as
indicating the very remarkable change which had occurred in young Sir
Walter. There at least Ruston had made a notable convert, and he had
effected this result by the simple but audacious device of offering to
take Sir Walter with him to Omofaga. Sir Walter was dazzled. Between
spending another year or two at Oxford _in statu pupillari_, vexed by
schools and disciplined by proctors--between being required to be in by
twelve at night and unable to visit London without permission--between
this unfledged state and the position of a man among the men who were in
the vanguard of the empire there rolled a flood; and the flood was
mighty enough to sweep away all young Sir Walter's doubts about Mr.
Ruston being a gentleman, to obliterate Evan Haselden's sneers, to
uproot his influence--in a word, to transform that youthful legislator
from a paragon of wisdom and accomplishments into "a good chap, but
rather a lot of side on, you know."

Marjory, having learnt from literature that hers was supposed to be the
fickle sex, might well open her eyes and begin to feel very sorry indeed
for poor Evan Haselden. But she also was under the spell and hailed the
sun of glory rising for her brother out of the mists of Omofaga; and if
poor Lady Valentine shed some tears before Willie Ruston convinced her
of the rare chance it was for her only boy--and a few more after he had
so convinced her--why, it would be lucky if these were the only tears
lost in the process of developing Omofaga; for it seems that great
enterprises must always be watered by the tears of mothers and nourished
on the blood of sons. _Sic fortis Etruria crevit._

One or two other facts may here be chronicled about Omofaga. There were
three great meetings: one at the Cannon Street Hotel, purely commercial;
another at the Westminster Town Hall, commercial-political; a third at
Exeter Hall, commercial-religious. They were all very successful, and,
taken together, were considered to cover the ground pretty completely.
The most unlike persons and the most disparate views found a point of
union in Omofaga. Adela Ferrars put three thousand pounds into it, Lady
Valentine a thousand. Mr. Carlin finally disposed of the coal business,
and his wife dreamt of the workhouse all night and scolded herself for
her lack of faith all the morning. Willie Ruston spoke of being off in
five months, and Sir Walter immediately bought a complete up-country
outfit.

Suddenly there was a cloud. Omofaga began to be "written down," in the
most determined and able manner. The anonymous detractor--in such terms
did Mr. Foster Belford refer to the writer--used the columns of a
business paper of high standing, and his letters, while preserving a
judicial and temperate tone, were uncompromisingly hostile and
exceedingly damaging. A large part of Omofaga (he said) had not been
explored, indeed, nobody knew exactly what was and what was not Omofaga;
let the shareholders get what comfort they could out of that; but, so
far as Omofaga had been explored, it had been proved to be barren of all
sources of wealth. The writer grudgingly admitted that it might feed a
certain head of cattle, though he hastened to add that the flies were
fatal all the hot months; but as for gold, or diamonds, or any such
things as companies most love, there were none, and if there were, they
could not be won, and if they could be won no European could live to win
them. It was a timid time on the markets then, and people took fright
easily. In a few days any temptation that might have assailed Lord
Semingham and Harry Dennison lost its power. Omofagas were far below
par, and Lady Semingham was entreating her husband to buy all he could
against the hour when they should be worth five pounds a piece, because,
as she said, Mr. Ruston was quite sure that they were going to be, and
who knew more about it than Mr. Ruston?

It was just about this time that Tom Loring, who had vanished completely
for a week or two, after his departure from Curzon Street, came up out
of the depths and called on Adela Ferrars in Queen's Gate; and her first
remark showed that she was a person of some perspicacity.

"Isn't this rather small of you?" she asked, putting on her eyeglasses
and finding an article which she indicated. "You may not like him, but
still----"

"How like a woman!" said Tom Loring in the tone of a man who expects
and, on the whole, welcomes ill-usage. "How did you know it was mine?"

"It's so like that article of Harry Dennison's. I think you might put
your name, anyhow."

"Yes, and rob what I say of all weight. Who knows my name?"

Adela felt an impulse to ask him angrily why nobody knew his name, but
she inquired instead what he thought he knew about Omofaga. She put this
question in a rather offensive tone.

It appeared that Tom Loring knew a great deal about Omofaga, all, in
fact, that there was to be learnt from blue-books, consular reports,
gazetteers, travels, and other heavy works of a like kind.

"You've been moling in the British Museum," cried Adela accusingly.

Tom admitted it without the least shame.

"I knew this thing was a fraud and the man a fraud, and I determined to
show him up if I could," said he.

"It's because you hate him."

"Then it's lucky for the British investor that I do hate him."

"It's not lucky for me," said Adela.

"You don't mean to say you've been----"

"Fool enough? Yes, I have. No, don't quarrel again. It won't ruin me,
anyhow. Are the things you say really true?"

Tom replied by another question.

"Do you think I'd write 'em if I didn't believe they were?"

"No, but you might believe they were because you hate him."

Tom seemed put out at this idea. It is not one that generally suggests
itself to a man when his own views are in question.

"I admit I began because I hate him," he said, with remarkable candour,
after a moment's consideration; "but, by Jove, as I went on I found
plenty of justification. Look here, you mustn't tell anyone I'm writing
them."

Tom looked a little embarrassed as he made this request.

Adela hesitated for a moment. She did not like the request, either.

"No, I won't," she said at last; and she added, "I'm beginning to think
I hate him, too. He's turning me into an hospital."

"What?"

"People he wounds come to me. Old Lady Valentine came and cried because
Walter's going to Omofaga; and Evan came and--well, swore because Walter
worships Mr. Ruston; and Harry Dennison came and looked bewildered,
and--you know--because--oh, because of you, and so on."

"And now I come, don't I?"

"Yes, and now you."

"And has Mrs. Dennison come?" asked Tom, with a look of disconcerting
directness.

"No," snapped Adela, and she looked at the floor, whereupon Tom diverted
his eyes from her and stared at the ceiling.

Presently he searched in his waistcoat pocket and brought out a little
note.

"Read that," he said, a world of disgust in his tone.

"'I told you so.--B.C.'" read Adela. "Oh, it's that Cormack woman!" she
cried.

"You see what it means? She means I've been got rid of in order
that----" Tom stopped, and brought his clenched fist down on his opened
palm. "If I thought it, I'd shoot the fellow," he ended.

He looked at her for the answer to his unexpressed question.

Adela turned the pestilential note over and over in her fingers,
handling it daintily as though it might stain.

"I don't think he means it," she said at last, without trying to blink
the truth of Tom's interpretation.

Tom rose and began to walk about.

"Women beat me," he broke out. "I don't understand 'em. How should I?
I'm not one of these fellows who catch women's fancy--thank God!"

"If you continue to dislike the idea, you'll probably manage to escape
the reality," observed Adela, and her tone, for some reason or
other--perhaps merely through natural championship of her sex--was
rather cold and her manner stiff.

"Oh, some women are all right;" and Adela acknowledged the concession
with a satirical bow. "Look here, can't you help?" he burst out. "Tell
her what a brute he is."

"Oh, you do not understand women!"

"Well, then, I shall tell Dennison. He won't stand nonsense of that
kind."

"You'll deserve horsewhipping if you do," remarked Adela.

"Then what am I to do?"

"Nothing. In fact, Mr. Loring, you have no genius for delicate
operations."

"Of course I'm a fool."

Adela played with her _pince-nez_ for a minute or two, put it on, looked
at him, and then said, with just a touch of unwonted timidity in her
voice,

"Anyhow, you happen to be a gentleman."

Poor Tom had been a good deal buffeted of late, and a friendly stroking
was a pleasant change. He looked up with a smile, but as he looked up
Adela looked away.

"I think I'll stop those articles," said he.

"Yes, do," she cried, a bright smile on her face.

"They've pretty well done their work, too."

"Don't! Don't spoil it! But--but don't you get money for them?"

Tom was in better humour now. He held out his hand with his old friendly
smile.

"Oh, wait till I am in the workhouse, and then you shall take me out."

"I don't believe I did mean that," protested Adela.

"You always mean everything that--that the best woman in the world could
mean," and Tom wrung her hand and disappeared.

Adela's hand was rather crushed and hurt, and for a moment she stood
regarding it ruefully.

"I thought he was going to kiss it," she said. "One of those fellows who
take women's fancy, perhaps, would have! And--and it wouldn't have hurt
so much. Ah, well, I'm very glad he's going to stop the articles."

And the articles did stop; and perhaps things might have fallen out
worse than that an honest man, driven hard by bitterness, should do a
useful thing from a doubtful motive, and having done just enough of it,
should repent and sin no more; for unquestionably the articles prevented
a great many persons from paying an unduly high price for Omofaga
shares. This line of thought seems defensible, but it was not Adela's.
She rejoiced purely that Tom should turn away from the doubtful thing;
and if Tom had been a man of greater acuteness, it would have struck him
as worthy of note, perhaps even of gratification, that Miss Adela
Ferrars should care so much whether he did or did not do doubtful
things. But then Miss Ferrars--for it seems useless to keep her secret
any longer, the above recorded interview having somewhat impaired its
mystery--was an improbably romantic person--such are to be met even at
an age beyond twenty-five--and was very naturally ashamed of her
weakness. People often are ashamed of being better than their
surroundings. Being better they feel better, and feeling better they
feel priggish, and then they try not to be better, and happily fail. So
Adela was very shamefaced over her ideal, and would as soon have thought
of preaching on a platform--of which practice she harboured a most
bigoted horror--as of proclaiming the part that love must play in her
marriage. The romantic resolve lay snug in its hidden nest, sheltered
from cold gusts of ridicule by a thick screen of worldly sayings, and,
when she sent away a suitor, of worldly-wise excuses. Thus no one
suspected it, not even Tom Loring, although he thought her "the best of
women;" a form of praise, by the way, that gave the lady honoured by it
less pleasure than less valuable commendation might have done. Why best?
Why not most charming? Well, probably because he thought the one and
didn't think the other. She was the best; but there was another whose
doings and whose peril had robbed Tom Loring of his peace, and made him
do the doubtful thing. Why had he done it? Or (and Adela smiled
mockingly at this resurrection of the Old Woman), if he did do it, why
did he do it for Maggie Dennison? She didn't believe he would ever do a
doubtful thing for her. For that she loved him; but perhaps she would
have loved him--well, not less--if he did; for how she would forgive
him!

After half-an-hour of this kind of thing--it was her own summary of her
meditations--she dressed, went out to dinner, sat next Evan Haselden,
and said cynical things all the evening; so that, at last Evan told her
that she had no more feeling than a mummified Methodist. This was
exactly what she wanted.




                              CHAPTER IX.

                        AN OPPRESSIVE ATMOSPHERE.


The Right Honourable Foster Belford, although not, like Mr. Pitt, famous
for "ruining Great Britain gratis"--perhaps merely from want of the
opportunity--had yet not made a fortune out of political life, and it
had suggested a pleasant addition to his means, when Willie Ruston
offered him the chairmanship of the Omofaga Company, with the promise of
a very comfortable yearly honorarium. He accepted the post with
alacrity, but without undue gratitude, for he considered himself well
worth the price; and the surprising fact is that he was well worth it.
He bulked large to the physical and mental view. His colleagues in the
Cabinet had taken a year or two to find out his limits, and the public
had not found them out yet. Therefore he was not exactly a fool. On the
other hand, the limits were certainly there, and so there was no danger
of his developing an inconvenient greatness. As has been previously
hinted, he enjoyed Harry Dennison's entire confidence; and he could be
relied upon not to understand Lord Semingham's irreverence. Thus his
appointment did good to the Omofaga as well as to himself, and only the
initiated winked when Willie Ruston hid himself behind this imposing
figure and pulled the strings.

"The best of it is," Ruston remarked to Semingham, "that you and Carlin
will have the whole thing in your own hands when I've gone out. Belford
won't give you any trouble."

"But, my dear fellow, I don't want it all in my hands. I want to grow
rich out of it without any trouble."

Ruston twisted his cigar in his mouth. The prospect of immediate wealth
flowing in from Omofaga was, as Lord Semingham knew very well, not
assured.

"Loring's stopped hammering us," said Ruston; "that's one thing."

"Oh, you found out he wrote them?"

"Yes; and uncommonly well he did it, confound him. I wish we could get
that fellow. There's a good deal in him."

"You see," observed Lord Semingham, "he doesn't like you. I don't know
that you went the right way about to make him."

The remark sounded blunt, but Semingham had learnt not to waste delicate
phrases on Willie Ruston.

"Well, I didn't know he was worth the trouble."

"One path to greatness is said to be to make no enemies."

"A very roundabout one, I should think. I'm going to make a good many
enemies in Omofaga."

Lord Semingham suddenly rose, put on his hat, and left the offices of
the Company. Mrs. Dennison had, a little while ago, complained to him
that she ate, drank, breathed and wore Omofaga. He had detected the
insincerity of her complaint, but he was becoming inclined to echo it in
all genuineness on his own account. There were moments when he wondered
how and why he had allowed this young man to lead him so far and so
deep; moments when a convulsion of Nature, redistributing Africa and
blotting out Omofaga, would have left him some thousands of pounds
poorer in purse, but appreciably more cheerful in spirit. Perhaps
matters would mend when the Local Administrator had departed to his
local administration, and only the mild shadow of him which bore the
name of Carlin trod the boards of Queen Street, Cheapside. Ruston began
to be oppressive. The restless energy and domineering mind of the man
wearied Semingham's indolent and dilettante spirit, and he hailed the
end of the season as an excellent excuse for putting himself beyond the
reach of his colleague for a few weeks. Yet, the more he quailed, the
more he trusted; and when a very great man, holding a very great office,
met him in the House of Lords, and expressed the opinion that when the
Company and Mr. Ruston went to Omofaga they would find themselves in a
pretty hornets' nest, Lord Semingham only said that he should be sorry
for the hornets.

"Don't ask us to fetch your man out for you, that's all," said the very
great man.

And for an instant Lord Semingham, still feeling that load upon his
shoulders, fancied that it would be far from his heart to prefer such a
request. There might be things less just and fitting than that Willie
Ruston and those savage tribes of Omofaga should be left to fight out
the quarrel by themselves, the civilised world standing aloof. And the
dividends--well, of course, there were the dividends, but Lord Semingham
had in his haste forgotten them.

"Ah, you don't know Ruston," said he, shaking a forefinger at the great
man.

"Don't I? He came every day to my office for a fortnight."

"Wanted something?"

"Yes, he wanted something certainly, or he wouldn't have come, you
know."

"Got it, I suppose?" asked Lord Semingham, in a tone curiously
indicative of resignation rather than triumph.

"Well, yes; I did, at last, not without hesitation, accede to his
request."

Then Lord Semingham, with no apparent excuse, laughed in the face of the
great man, left the House (much in the same sudden way as he had left
Queen Street, Cheapside), and passed rapidly through the lobbies till he
reached Westminster Hall. Here he met a young man, clad to perfection,
but looking sad. It was Evan Haselden. With a sigh of relief at meeting
no one of heavier metal, Semingham stopped him and began to talk. Evan's
melancholy air enveloped his answers in a mist of gloom. Moreover there
was a large streak on his hat, where the nap had been rubbed the wrong
way; evidently he was in trouble. Presently he seized his friend by the
arm, and proposed a walk in the Park.

"But are you paired?" asked Semingham; for an important division was to
occur that day in the Commons.

"No," said Evan fiercely. "Come along;" and Lord Semingham went,
exclaiming inwardly, "A girl!"

"I'm the most miserable devil alive," said Evan, as they left the Horse
Guards on the right hand.

Semingham put up his eyeglass.

"I've always regarded you as the favourite of fortune," he said. "What's
the matter?"

The matter unfolded itself some half-hour after they had reached the Row
and sat down. It came forth with difficulty; pride obstructed the
passage, and something better than pride made the young man diffuse in
the telling of his trouble. Lord Semingham grew very grave indeed. Let
who would laugh at happy lovers, he had a groan for the unfortunate--a
groan with reservations.

"She said she liked me very much, but didn't feel--didn't, you know,
look up to me enough, and so on," said poor Evan in puzzled pain. "I--I
can't think what's come over her. She used to be quite different. I
don't know what she means by talking like that."

Lord Semingham played a tune on his knee with the fingers of one hand.
He was waiting.

"Young Val's gone back on me too," moaned Evan, who took the brother's
deposal of him hardly more easily than the sister's rejection. Suddenly
he brightened up; a smile, but a bitter one, gleamed across his face.

"I think I've put one spoke in his wheel, though," he said.

"Ruston's?" inquired Semingham, still playing his tune.

"Yes. A fortnight ago, old Detchmore" (Lord Detchmore was the very great
man before referred to) "asked me if I knew Loring. You know Ruston's
been trying to get Detchmore to back him up in making a railway to
Omofaga?"

"I didn't know," said Lord Semingham, with an unmoved face.

"You're a director, aren't you?"

"Yes. Go on, my dear boy."

"And Detchmore had seen Loring's articles. Well, I took Tom to him, and
we left him quite decided to have nothing to do with it. Oh, by Jove,
though, I forgot; I suppose you'd be on the other side there, wouldn't
you?"

"I suppose I should, but it doesn't matter."

"Why not?"

"Because I fancy Ruston's got what he wanted;" and Lord Semingham
related what he had heard from the Earl of Detchmore.

Evan listened in silence, and, the tale ended, the two lay back in their
chairs, and idly looked at the passing carriages. At last Lord Semingham
spoke.

"He's going to Omofaga in a few months," he observed. "And, Evan, you
don't mean that he's your rival at the Valentines'?"

"I'm not so sure, confound him. You know how pretty she is."

Semingham knew that she was pretty; but he also knew that she was poor,
and thought that she was, if not too insipid (for he recognised the
unusual taste of his own mind), at least too immature to carry Willie
Ruston off his feet, and into a love affair that promised no worldly
gain.

"I asked Mrs. Dennison what she thought," pursued Evan.

"Oh, you did?"

"But the idea seemed quite a new one to her. That's good, you know. I
expect she'd have noticed if he'd shown any signs."

Lord Semingham thought it very likely.

"Anyhow," Evan continued, "Marjory's awfully keen about him."

"He'll be in Omofaga in three or four months," Semingham repeated. It
was all the consolation he could offer.

Presently Evan got up and strode away. Lord Semingham sat on, musing on
the strange turmoil the coming of the man had made in the little corner
of the world he dwelt in. He was reminded of what was said concerning
Lord Byron by another poet. They all felt Ruston. His intrusion into the
circle had changed all the currents, so that sympathy ran no longer
between old friends, and hearts answered to a new stimulus. Some he
attracted, some he repelled; none did he leave alone. From great to
small his influence ran; from the expulsion of Tom Loring to the
christening of the Omofaga mantle. Semingham had an acute sense of the
absurdity of it all, but he had seen absurd things happen too often to
be much relieved by his intuition. And when absurd things happen, they
have consequences just as other things have. And the most exasperating
fact was the utter unconsciousness of the disturber. He had no
mystery-airs, no graces, no seeming fascinations. He was relentlessly
business-like, unsentimental, downright; he took it all as a matter of
course. He did not pry for weak spots. He went right on--on and
over--and seemed not to know when he was going over. A very Juggernaut
indeed! Semingham thanked Adela for teaching him the word.

He was suddenly roused by the merry laughter of children. Three or four
little ones were scampering along the path in the height of glee. As
they came up, he recognised them. He had seen them once before. They
were Carlin's children. Five there were, he counted now; three ran
ahead; two little girls held each a hand of Willie Ruston's, who was
laughing as merrily as his companions. The whole group knew Semingham,
and the eldest child was by his knees in a moment.

"We've been to the Exhibition," she cried exultantly; "and now
Willie--Mr. Ruston, I mean--is taking us to have ices in Bond Street."

"A human devil!" said the astonished man to himself, as Willie Ruston
plumped down beside him, imploring a brief halt, and earnestly
asseverating that his request was in good faith, and concealed no
lurking desire to evade the ices.

"I met young Haselden as we came along," Ruston observed, wiping his
brow.

"Ah! Yes, he's been with me."

The children had wandered a few yards off, and stood impatiently looking
at their hero.

"He's had a bit of a facer, I fancy," pursued Willie Ruston. "Heard
about it?"

"Something."

"It'll come all right, I should think," said Ruston, in a comfortably
careless tone. "He's not a bad fellow, you know, though he's not
over-appreciative of me." Lord Semingham found no comment. "I hear
you're going to Dieppe next week?" asked Ruston.

"Yes. My wife and Mrs. Dennison have put their heads together, and fixed
on that. You know we're economising."

Ruston laughed.

"I suppose you are," he said through his white teeth. The idea seemed to
amuse him. "We may meet there. I've promised to run over for a few days
if I can."

"The deuce you have!" would have expressed his companion's feelings; but
Lord Semingham only said, "Oh, really?"

"All right, I'm coming directly," Ruston cried a moment later to his
young friends, and, with a friendly nod, he rose and went on his way.
Lord Semingham watched the party till it disappeared through the Park
gates, hearing in turn the children's shrill laugh and Willie Ruston's
deeper notes. The effect of the chance meeting was to make his fancies
and his fancied feelings look still more absurd. That he perceived at
once; the devil appeared so very human in such a mood and such
surroundings. Yet that attribute--that most demoniac attribute--of
ubiquity loomed larger and larger. For not even a foreign land--not even
a watering-place of pronounced frivolity--was to be a refuge. The man
was coming to Dieppe! And on whose bidding? Semingham had no doubt on
whose bidding; and, out of the airy forms of those absurd fancies, there
seemed to rise a more material shape, a reality, a fabric not compounded
wholly of dreams, but mixed of stuff that had made human comedies and
human tragedies since the world began. Mrs. Dennison had bidden Willie
Ruston to Dieppe. That was Semingham's instant conclusion; she had
bidden him, not merely by a formal invitation, or by a simple
acquiescence, but by the will and determination which possessed her to
be of his mind and in his schemes. And perhaps Evan Haselden's innocent
asking of her views had carried its weight also. For nearly an hour
Semingham sat and mused. For awhile he thought he would act; but how
should he act? And why? And to what end? Since what must be must, and in
vain do we meddle with fate. An easy, almost eager, recognition of the
inevitable in the threatened, of the necessary in everything that
demanded effort for its avoidance, had stamped his life and grown deep
into his mind. Wherefore now, faced with possibilities that set his
nerves on edge, and wrung his heart for good friends, he found nothing
better to do than shrug his shoulders and thank God that his own wife's
submission to the man went no deeper than the inside lining of that
famous Omofaga mantle, nor his own than the bottom, or near the bottom,
of his trousers' pocket.

"Though that, in faith," he exclaimed ruefully, as at last he rose, "is,
in this world of ours, pretty deep!"




                               CHAPTER X.

                         A LADY'S BIT OF WORK.


The Dennison children, after a two nights' banishment, had come down to
dessert again. They had been in sore disgrace, caused (it was stated to
Mrs. Cormack, who had been invited to dine _en famille_) by a grave
breach of hospitality and good manners which Madge had led the younger
ones--who tried to look plaintively innocent--into committing.

The Carlin children had come to tea, and a great dissension had arisen
between the two parties. The Carlins had belauded the generous donor of
ices; Madge had taken up the cudgels fiercely on Tom Loring's behalf,
and Dora and Alfred had backed her up. Each side proceeded from praise
of its own favourite to sneers--by no means covert--at the other's man,
and the feud had passed from the stage of words to that of deeds before
it was discovered by the superior powers and crushed. On the hosts, of
course, the blame had to fall; they were sent to bed, while the guests
drove off in triumph, comforted by sweets and shillings. Madge did not
think, or pretend to think, that this was justice, and her mother's
recital of her crimes to Mrs. Cormack, so far from reducing her to
penitence, brought back to her cheeks and eyes the glow they had worn
when she slapped (there is no use in blinking facts) Jessie Carlin, and
told her that she hated Mr. Ruston. Madge Dennison was like her mother
in face and temper. That may have been the reason why Harry Dennison
squeezed her hand under the table, and by his tacit aid broke the force
of his wife's cold reproofs. But there was perhaps another reason also.

Mrs. Cormack said that she was shocked, and looked very much amused. The
little history made up for the bore of having the children brought in.
That was a thing she objected to very much; it stopped all rational
conversation. But now her curiosity was stirred.

"Why don't you like Mr. Ruston, my child?" she asked Madge.

"I don't dislike him," said Madge, rosy red, and speaking with elaborate
slowness. She said it as though it were a lesson she had learnt.

"But why, then," said Mrs. Cormack, whirling her hands, "beat the little
Carlin?"

"That was before mamma told me," answered Madge, the two younger ones
sitting by, open-mouthed, to hear her explanation.

"Oh, what an obedient child! How I should have liked a little girl like
you, darling!"

Madge hated sarcasm, and her feelings towards Mrs. Cormack reflected
those of her idol, Tom Loring.

"I don't know what you mean," she said curtly; and then she looked
anxiously at her mother.

But Mrs. Dennison was smiling.

"Let her alone, Berthe," she said. "She's been punished. Give her some
fruit, Harry."

Harry Dennison piled up the plate eagerly held out to him.

"Who'll give you fruit at Dieppe?" he asked, stroking his daughter's
hair.

Mrs. Cormack pricked up her ears.

"Didn't we tell you?" asked Mrs. Dennison. "Harry can't come for a
fortnight. That tiresome old Sir George" (Sir George was the senior
partner in Dennison, Sons & Company) "is down with the gout, and Harry's
got to stay in town. But I'll give Madge fruit--if she's good."

"Papa gives it me anyhow," said Madge, who preferred unconditional
benefits.

Harry laughed dolefully. He had been looking forward to a holiday with
his children. Their uninterrupted society would have easily consoled him
for the loss of the moor.

"It's an awful bore," he said; "but there's no help for it. Sir George
can't put a foot to the ground."

"Anyhow," suggested Mrs. Cormack, "you will be able to help Mr. Ruston
with the Omofaga."

"Papa," broke out Madge, her face bright with a really happy idea, which
must, she thought, meet with general acceptance, "since you can't come,
why shouldn't Tom?"

Mrs. Cormack grew more amused. Oh, it was quite worth while to have the
children! They were so good at saying things one couldn't say oneself;
and then one could watch the effect. In an impulse of gratitude, she
slid a banana on to Madge's plate.

"Marjory Valentine's coming," said Mrs. Dennison. "You like her, don't
you, Madge?"

"She's a girl," said Madge scornfully; and Harry, with a laugh, stroked
her hair again.

"You're a little flirt," said he.

"But why can't Tom?" persisted Madge, as she attacked the banana. It was
Mrs. Cormack's gift, but--_non olet_.

For a moment nobody answered. Then Harry Dennison said--not in the least
as though he believed it, or expected anybody else to believe it--

"Tom's got to stay and work."

"Have all the gentlemen we know got to stay and work?"

Harry nodded assent.

Mrs. Cormack was leaning forward. A moment later she sank back, hiding a
smile behind her napkin; for Madge observed, in a tone of utter
contentment,

"Oh, then, Mr Ruston won't come;" and she wagged her head reassuringly
at the open-mouthed little ones. They were satisfied, and fell again to
eating.

After a few moments, Mrs. Dennison, who had made no comment on her
daughter's inference, swept the flock off to bed, praying Berthe to
excuse her temporary absence. It was her habit to go upstairs with them
when possible, and Harry would see that coffee came.

"Poor Madge!" said Harry, when the door was shut, "what'll she say when
Ruston turns up?"

"Then he does go?"

"I think so. We'd asked him to stay with us, and though he can't do that
now, he and young Walter Valentine talk of running over for a few days.
I hope they will."

Mrs. Cormack, playing with her teaspoon, glanced at her host out of the
corner of her eye.

"He can go all the better, as I shall be here," continued Harry. "I can
look after Omofaga."

Mrs. Cormack rapped the teaspoon sharply on her cup. The man was such a
fool. Harry, dimly recognising her irritation, looked up inquiringly;
but she hesitated before she spoke. Would it spoil sport or make sport
if she stirred a suspicion in him? A thought threw its weight in the
balance. Maggie Dennison's friendship had been a trifle condescending,
and the grateful friend pictured her under the indignity of enforced
explanations, of protests, even of orders to alter her conduct. But how
would Harry take a hint? There were men silly enough to resent such
hints. Caution was the word.

"Well, I almost wish he wasn't going," she said at last. "For Maggie's
sake, I mean. She wants a complete rest."

"Oh, but she likes him. He amuses her. Why, she's tremendously
interested in Omofaga, Mrs. Cormack."

"Ah, but he excites her too. We poor women have nerves, Mr. Dennison. It
would be much better for her to hear nothing of Omofaga for a few
weeks."

"Has she been talking to you much about it?" asked Harry, beginning to
feel anxious at his guest's immensely solemn tone.

Indeed, little Mrs. Cormack spoke for the nonce quite like a family
physician.

"Oh, yes, about it and him," she replied. "She's never off the subject.
Mr. Loring was half right."

"Tom's objections were based on quite other grounds."

"Oh, were they really? I thought--well, anyhow, Mr. Ruston being there
will do her no good. She'll like it immensely, of course."

Harry Dennison rubbed his hand over his chin.

"I see what you mean," he said. "Yes, she'd have been better away from
everything. But I can't object to Ruston going. I asked him myself."

"Yes, when you were going."

"That makes no difference."

Mrs. Cormack said nothing. She tapped her spoon against the cup once
more.

"Why, we should have talked all the more about it if I'd been there."

His companion was still silent, her eyes turned down towards the table.
Harry looked at her with perplexity, and when he next spoke, there was a
curious appealing note in his voice.

"Surely it doesn't make any difference?" he asked. "What difference can
it make?"

No answer came. Mrs. Cormack laid down the spoon and sat back in her
chair.

"You mean there'll be no one to make a change for her--to distract her
thoughts?"

Mrs. Cormack flung her hands out with an air of impatience.

"Oh, I meant nothing," said she petulantly.

The clock seemed to tick very loud in the silence that followed her
words.

"I wish I could go," said Harry at last, in a low tone.

"Oh, I wish you could, Mr. Dennison;" and as she spoke she raised her
eyes, and, for the first time, looked full in his face.

Harry rose from his chair; at the same moment his wife re-entered the
room. He started a little at the sight of her.

She held a letter in her hand.

"Mr. Ruston will be at Dieppe on the 15th with Walter Valentine," she
said, referring to it. "Give me some coffee, Harry."

He poured it out and gave it to her, saying,

"A letter from Ruston? Let's see what he says."

"Oh, there's nothing else," she answered, laying it beside her.

Mrs. Cormack sat looking on.

"May I see?" asked Harry Dennison.

"If you like," she answered, a little surprised; and, turning to Mrs.
Cormack, she added, "Mr. Ruston's a man of few words on paper."

"Ah, he makes every word mean something, I expect," returned that lady,
who was quite capable of the same achievement herself, and exhibited it
in this very speech.

"What does he mean by the postscript?--'Have you found another kingdom
yet?'" asked Harry, with a puzzled frown.

"It's a joke, dear."

"But what does it mean?"

"Oh, my dear Harry, I can't explain jokes."

Harry laid the note down again.

"It's a joke between ourselves," Mrs. Dennison went on. "I oughtn't to
have shown you the letter. Come, Berthe, we'll go upstairs."

And Mrs. Cormack had no alternative but to obey.

Left alone, Harry Dennison drew his chair up to the hearthrug. There was
no fire, but he acted as though there were, leaning forward with his
elbows on his knees, and gazing into the grate. He felt hurt and
disconsolate. His old grievance--that people left him out--was strong
upon him. He had delighted in the Omofaga scheme, because he had been in
the inside ring there--because he was of importance to it--because it
showed him to his wife as a mover in great affairs. And now--somehow--he
seemed to be being pushed outside there too. What was this joke between
themselves? At Dieppe they would have all that out; he would not be in
the way there. Then he did not understand what Berthe Cormack would be
at. She had looked at him so curiously. He did not know what to make of
it, and he wished that Tom Loring were on the other side of the
fireplace. Then he could ask him all about it. Tom! Why, Tom had looked
at him almost in the same way as Berthe Cormack had--just when he was
wringing his hand in farewell. No, it was not the same way--and yet in
part the same. Tom's look had pity in it, and no derision. Mrs.
Cormack's derision was but touched with pity. Yet both seemed to ask,
"Don't you see?" See what? Why had Tom gone away? He could rely on Tom.
See what? There was nothing to see.

He sat longer than he meant. It was past ten when he went upstairs. Mrs.
Cormack had gone, and his wife was in an armchair by the open window. He
came in softly and surprised her with her head thrown back on the
cushions and a smile on her lips. And the letter was in her hands.
Hearing his step when he was close by her, she sat up, letting the note
fall to the ground.

"What a time you've been! Berthe's gone. Were you asleep?"

"No. I was thinking; Maggie, I wish I could come to Dieppe with you."

"Ah, I wish you could," said she graciously. "But you're left in charge
of Omofaga."

She spoke as though in that charge lay consolation more than enough.

"I believe you care--I mean you think more about Omofaga than about----"

"Anything in the world?" she asked, in playful mockery.

"Than about me," he went on stubbornly.

"Than about your coming to Dieppe, you mean?"

"I mean, than about me," he repeated.

She looked at him wonderingly.

"My dear man," said she, taking his hand, "what's the matter?"

"You do wish I could come?"

"Must I say?" smiled Mrs. Dennison. "For shame, Harry! You might be on
your honeymoon."

He moved away, and flung himself into a chair.

"I don't think it's fair of Ruston," he broke out, "to run away and
leave it all to me."

"Why, you told him you could do it perfectly! I heard you say so."

"How could I say anything else, when--when----"

"And originally you were both to be away! After all, you're not stopping
because of Omofaga, but because Sir George has got the gout."

Harry Dennison, convicted of folly, had no answer, though he was hurt
that he should be convicted out of his wife's mouth. He shuffled his
feet about and began to whistle dolefully.

Mrs. Dennison looked at him with smothered impatience. Their little boy
behaved like that when he was in a naughty mood--when he wanted the
moon, or something of that kind, and thought mother and nurse cruel
because it didn't come. Mrs. Dennison forgot that mother and nurse were
fate to her little boy, or she might have sympathised with his naughty
moods a little better.

She rose now and walked slowly over to her husband. She had a hand on
his chair, and was about to speak, when he stopped his whistling and
jerked out abruptly,

"What did he mean about the kingdom?"

Mrs. Dennison's hand slid away and fell by her side. Harry caught her
look of cold anger. He leapt to his feet.

"Maggie, I'm a fool," he cried. "I don't know what's wrong with me. Sit
down here."

He made her sit, and half-crouched, half-knelt beside her.

"Maggie," he went on, "are you angry? Damn the joke! I don't want to
know. Are you sorry I'm not coming?"

"What a baby you are, Harry! Oh, yes, awfully sorry."

He knew so well what he wanted to say: he wanted to tell her that she
was everything to him, that to be out of her heart was death: that to
feel her slipping away was a torture: he wanted to woo and win her over
again--win her more truly than he had even in those triumphant days when
she gave herself to him. He wanted to show her that he understood
her--that he was not a fool--that he was man enough for her! Yes, that
she need not turn to Ruston or anybody else. Oh, yes, he could
understand her, really he could.

Not a word of it would come. He dared not begin: he feared that he would
look--that she would find him--more silly still, if he began to say that
sort of thing. She was smiling satirically now--indulgently but
satirically, and the emphasis of her purposely childish "awfully"
betrayed her estimation of his question. She did not understand the
mood. She was accustomed to his admiration--worship would hardly be too
strong a word. But the implied demand for a response to it seemed
strange to her. Her air bore in upon him the utter difference between
his thoughts of her and the way she thought about him. Always dimly
felt, it had never pressed on him like this before.

"Really, I'm very sorry, dear," she said, just a little more seriously.
"But it's only a fortnight. We're not separating for ever," and her
smile broke out again.

With a queer feeling of hopelessness, he rose to his feet. No, he
couldn't make her feel it. He had suffered in the same way over his
speeches; he couldn't make people feel them either. She didn't
understand. It was no use. He began to whistle again, staring out of the
open window.

"I shall go to bed, Harry. I'm tired. I've been seeing that the maid's
packed what I wanted, and it's harder work than packing oneself."

"Give me a kiss, Meg," he said, turning round.

She did not do that, but she accepted his kiss, and he, turning away
abruptly, shaped his lips to resume his tune. But now the tune wouldn't
come. His wife left him alone. The tune came when she was there. Now it
wouldn't. Ah, but the words would. He muttered them inaudibly to himself
as he stood looking out of the window. They sounded as though they must
touch any woman's heart. With an oath he threw himself on to the sofa,
trying now to banish the haunting words--the words that would not come
at his call, and came, in belated uselessness, to mock him now. He lay
still; and they ran through his head. At last they ceased; but, before
he could thank God for that, a strange sense of desolation came over
him. He looked round the empty, silent room, that seemed larger now than
in its busy daylight hours. The house was all still; there might have
been one lying dead in it. It might have been the house of a man who had
lost his wife.




                              CHAPTER XI.

                          AGAINST HIS COMING.


"The great Napoleon once observed----"

"Don't quote from 'Anecdotes, New and Old,'" interrupted Adela unkindly.

"That when his death was announced," pursued Lord Semingham, who thought
it good for Adela to take no notice of such interruptions, "everybody
would say _Ouf_. I say '_Ouf_' now," and he stretched his arms
luxuriously to their full length. "There's room here," he added,
explaining the gesture.

"Well, who's dead?" asked Adela, choosing to be exasperatingly literal.

"Nobody's dead; but a lot of people--and things--are a long way off."

"That's not so satisfactorily final," said Adela.

"No, but it serves for the time. Did you see me on my bicycle this
morning?"

"What, going round here?" and Adela waved her hand circularly, as though
embracing the broad path that runs round the grass by the sea at Dieppe.

"Yes--just behind a charming _Parisienne_ in a pair of--behind a
charming _Parisienne_ in an appropriate costume."

"Bessie must get one," said Adela.

"Good heavens!"

"I mean a bicycle."

"Oh, certainly, if she likes; but she'd as soon mount Salisbury Spire."

"How did you learn?"

"I really beg your pardon," said Semingham, "but the fact is--Ruston
taught me."

"Let's change the subject," said Adela, smiling.

"A charming child, this Marjory Valentine," observed Semingham. "She's
too good for young Evan. I'm very glad she wouldn't have him."

"I'm not."

"You're always sorry other girls don't marry. Heaven knows why."

"Well, I'm sorry she didn't take Evan."

"Why?"

"I can't tell you."

"Not--not the forbidden topic?"

"I half believe so."

"But she's here with Maggie Dennison."

"Well, everybody doesn't chatter as you do," said Adela incisively.

"I don't believe it. She----Hallo! here she is!"

Marjory Valentine came along, bending her slim figure a little, the
better to resist a fresh breeze that blew her skirts out behind her, and
threatened to carry off her broad-brimmed hat. She had been bathing; the
water was warm, and her cheeks glowed with a fine colour. As she came
up, both Adela and Lord Semingham put on their eyeglasses.

"An uncommon pretty girl," observed the latter.

"Isn't it glorious?" cried Marjory, yet several yards away. "Walter will
enjoy the bathing tremendously."

"When's he coming?"

"Saturday," answered Marjory. "Where is Lady Semingham?"

"Dressing," said Semingham solemnly. "Costume number one, off at 11.30.
Costume number two, on at 12. Costume number two, off at 3.30.
Costume----"

"After all, she's your wife," said Adela, in tones of grave reproach.

"But for that, I shouldn't have a word to say against it. Women are very
queer reasoners."

Marjory sat down next to Adela.

"Women do waste a lot of time on dress, don't they?" she asked, in a
meditative tone; "and a lot of thought, too!"

"Hallo!" exclaimed Lord Semingham.

"I mean, thought they might give to really important things. You can't
imagine George Eliot----"

"What about Queen Elizabeth?" interrupted Semingham.

"She was a horrible woman," said Adela.

"Phryne attached no importance to it," added Semingham.

"Oh, I forgot! Tell me about her," cried Marjory.

"A strong-minded woman, Miss Marjory."

"He's talking nonsense, Marjory."

"I supplied a historical instance in Miss Valentine's favour."

"I shall look her up," said Marjory, at which Lord Semingham smiled in
quiet amusement. He was a man who saw his joke a long way off, and could
wait patiently for it.

"Yes, do," he said, lighting a cigarette.

Adela had grown grave, and was watching the girl's face. It was a pretty
face, and not a silly one; and Marjory's blue eyes gazed out to sea, as
though she were looking at something a great way off. Adela, with a
frown of impatience, turned to her other neighbour. She would not be
troubled with aspirations there. In fact, she was still annoyed with her
young friend on Evan Haselden's account. But it was no use turning to
Lord Semingham. His eyes were more than half-closed, and he was beating
time gently to the Casino band, audible in the distance. Adela sighed.
At last Marjory broke the silence.

"When Mr. Ruston comes," she began, "I shall ask him whether----"

The sentence was not finished.

"When who comes?" cried Adela; and Semingham opened his eyes and stilled
his foot-pats.

"Mr. Ruston."

"Is he coming after all? I thought, now that Dennison----"

"Oh, yes--he's coming with Walter. Didn't you know?"

"Is he coming to-day?"

"I suppose so. Aren't you glad?"

"Of course," from Adela, and "Oh, uncommonly," from Lord Semingham,
seemed at first sight answers satisfactory enough; but Marjory's
inquiring gaze rested on their faces.

"Come for a stroll," said Adela abruptly, and passing her arm through
Marjory's, she made her rise. Semingham, having gasped out his
conventional reply, sat like a man of stone, but Adela, for all that it
was needless, whispered imperatively, "Stay where you are."

"Well, Marjory," she went on, as they began to walk, "I don't know that
I am glad after all."

"I believe you don't like him."

"I believe I don't," said Adela slowly. It was a point she had not yet
quite decided.

"I didn't use to."

"But you do now?"

"Yes."

Adela hated the pregnant brevity of this affirmative.

"Mamma doesn't," laughed Marjory. "She's so angry with him carrying off
Walter. As if it wasn't a grand thing for Walter! So she's quite turned
round about him."

"He's not staying in--with you, I suppose?"

"Oh, no. Though I don't see why he shouldn't. Conventions are so stupid,
aren't they? Mrs. Dennison's there," and Marjory looked up with an
appeal to calm reason as personified in Adela.

At another time, nineteen's view of twenty-nine--Marjory's conception of
Maggie Dennison as a sufficing chaperon--would have amused Adela. But
she was past amusement. Her patience snapped, as it were, in two. She
turned almost fiercely on her companion, forgetting all prudence in her
irritation.

"For heaven's sake, child, what do you mean? Do you think he's coming to
see you?"

Marjory drew her arm out from Adela's, and retreated a step from her.

"Adela! I never thought----" She did not end, conscious, perhaps, that
her flushed face gave her words the lie. Adela swept on.

"You! He's not coming to see you. I don't believe he's coming to see
anyone--no, not even Maggie--I mean no one, at all."

The girl's look marked the fatal slip.

"Oh!" she gasped, just audibly.

"I don't believe he cares _that_ for any of us--for anyone alive.
Marjory, I didn't mean what I said about Maggie, I didn't indeed. Don't
look like that. Oh, what a stupid girl you are!" and she ended with a
half-hysterical laugh.

For some moments they stood facing one another, saying nothing. The
meaning of Adela's words was sinking into Marjory's mind.

"Let's walk on. People will wonder," said she at last; and she enlaced
Adela's arm again. After another long pause, during which her face
expressed the turmoil of her thoughts, she whispered,

"Adela, is that why Mr. Loring went away?"

"I don't know why he went away."

"You think me a child, so you say you don't mean it now. You do mean it,
you know. You wouldn't say a thing like that for nothing. Tell me what
you do mean, Adela." It was almost an order. Adela suddenly realised
that she had struck down to a force and a character. "Tell me exactly
what you mean," insisted Marjory; "you ought to tell me, Adela."

Adela found herself obeying.

"I don't know about him; but I'm afraid of her," she stammered, as if
confessing a shameful deed of her own. A moment later she broke into
entreaty. "Go away, dear. Don't get mixed up in it. Don't have anything
to do with him."

"Do you go away when your friends are in trouble or in danger?"

Adela felt suddenly small--then wise--then small because her wisdom was
of a small kind. Yet she gave it utterance.

"But, Marjory, think of--think of yourself. If you----."

"I know what you're going to say. If I care for him? I don't. I hardly
know him. But, if I did, I might--I might be of some use. And are you
going to leave her all alone? I thought you were her friend. Are you
just going to look on? Though you think--what you think!"

Adela caught hold of the girl's hands. There was a choking in her
throat, and she could say nothing.

"But if he sees?" she murmured, when she found speech.

"He won't see. There's nothing to see. I shan't show it. Adela, I shall
stay. Why do you think what--what you think?"

People might wonder, if they would--perhaps they did--when Adela drew
Marjory towards her, and kissed her lips.

"I couldn't, my dear," she said, "but, if you can, for heaven's sake do.
I may be wrong, but--I'm uneasy."

Marjory's lips quivered, but she held her head proudly up; then she
sobbed a short quick-stifled sob, and then smiled.

"I daresay it's not a bit true," she said.

Adela pressed her hand again, saying,

"I'm an emotional old creature."

"Why did Mr. Loring go away?" demanded Marjory.

"I don't know. He thought it----"

"Best? Well, he was wrong."

Adela could not hear Tom attacked.

"Maggie turned him out," she said--which account of the matter was,
perhaps, just a little one-sided, though containing a part of the truth.
Marjory meditated on it for a moment, Adela still covertly looking at
her. The discovery was very strange. Half-an-hour ago she had smiled
because the girl hinted a longing after something beyond frocks, and had
laughed at her simple acceptance of Semingham's joke. Now she found
herself turning to her, looking to her for help in the trouble that had
puzzled her. In her admiration of the girl's courage, she forgot to
wonder at her intuition, her grasp of evil possibilities, the knowledge
of Maggie Dennison that her resolve implied. Adda watched her, as, their
farewell said, she walked, first quickly, then very slowly, towards the
villa which Mrs. Dennison had hired, on the cliff-side, near the old
Castle. Then, with a last sigh, she put up her parasol and sauntered
back to the Hôtel de Rome. Costume number two would be on by now, and
Bessie Semingham ready for luncheon.

Marjory, finally sunk into the slow gait that means either idleness or
deep thought, made her way up to the villa. With every step she drew
nearer, the burden she had taken up seemed heavier. It was not sorrow
for the dawning dream that the storm-cloud had eclipsed that she really
thought of. But the task loomed large in its true difficulty, as her
first enthusiasm spent itself. If Adela were right, what could she do?
If Adela were wrong, what unpardonable offence she might give. Ah, was
Adela right? Strange and new as the idea was, there was an unquestioning
conviction in her manner that Marjory could hardly resist. Save under
the stress of a conviction, speech on such a matter would have been an
impossible crime. And Marjory remembered, with a sinking heart, Maggie
Dennison's smile of happy triumph when she read out the lines in which
Ruston told of his coming. Yes, it was, or it might be, true. But where
lay her power to help?

Coming round the elbow of the rising path, she caught sight of Maggie
Dennison sitting in the garden. Mrs. Dennison wore white; her pale,
clear-cut profile was towards Marjory; she rested her chin on her hand,
and her elbow on her knee, and she was looking on the ground. Softly
Marjory drew near. An unopened letter from Harry lay on a little table;
the children had begun their mid-day meal in the room, whose open window
was but a few feet behind; Mrs. Dennison's thoughts were far away.
Marjory stopped short. A stronger buffet of fear, a more overwhelming
sense of helplessness, smote her. She understood better why Adela had
been driven to do nothing--to look on. She smiled for an instant; the
idea put itself so whimsically; but she thought that, had Mrs. Dennison
been walking over a precipice, it would need all one's courage to
interfere with her. She would think it such an impertinence. And Ruston?
Marjory saw, all in a minute, his cheerful scorn, his unshaken
determination, his rapid dismissal of one more obstacle. She drew in her
breath in a long inspiration, and Mrs. Dennison raised her eyes and
smiled.

"I believe I felt you there," she said, smiling. "At least, I began to
think of you."

Marjory sat near her hostess.

"Did you meet anyone?" asked Mrs. Dennison.

"Adela Ferrars and Lord Semingham."

"Well, had they anything to say?"

"No--I don't think so," she answered slowly.

"What should they have to say in this place? The children have begun.
Aren't you hungry?"

"Not very."

"Well, I am," and Mrs. Dennison arose. "I forgot it, but I am."

"They didn't know Mr. Ruston was coming."

"Didn't they?" smiled Mrs. Dennison. "And has Adela forgiven you? Oh,
you know, the poor boy is a friend of hers, as he is of mine."

"We didn't talk about it."

"And you don't want to? Very well, we won't. See, here's a long
letter--it's very heavy, at least--from Harry. I must read it
afterwards."

"Perhaps it's to say he can come sooner."

"I expect not," said Mrs. Dennison, and she opened the letter. "No; a
fortnight hence at the soonest," she announced, after reading a few
lines.

Marjory was both looking and listening closely, but she detected neither
disappointment nor relief.

"He's seen Tom Loring! Oh, and Tom sends me his best remembrances. Poor
Tom! Marjory, does Adela talk about Mr. Loring?"

"She mentioned him once."

"She thinks it was all my fault," laughed Mrs. Dennison. "A woman always
thinks it's a woman's fault; at least, that's our natural tendency,
though we're being taught to overcome it. Marjory, you look dull! It
will be livelier for you when your brother and Mr. Ruston come."

The hardest thing about great resolves and lofty moods is their
intermixture with everyday life. The intervals, the "waits," the mass of
irrelevant trivialities that life inartistically mingles with its drama,
flinging down pell-mell a heap of great and small--these cool courage
and make discernment distrust itself. Mrs. Dennison seemed so quiet, so
placid, so completely the affectionate but not anxious wife, the kind
hostess, and even the human gossip, that Marjory wanted to rub her eyes,
wondering if all her heroics were nonsense--a girl's romance gone wrong.
There was nothing to be done but eat and drink, and talk and lounge in
the sun--there was no hint of a drama, no call for a rescue, no place
for a sacrifice. And Marjory had been all aglow to begin. Her face grew
dull and her eyelids half-dropped as she leant her head on the back of
her chair.

"_Déjeuner!_" cried Mrs. Dennison merrily. "And this afternoon we're all
going to gamble at _petits chevaux_, and if we win we're going to buy
more Omofagas. There's a picture of a speculator's family!"

"Mr. Dennison's not a speculator, is he?"

"Oh, it depends on what you mean. Anyhow, I am;" and Mrs. Dennison,
waving her letter in the air and singing softly, almost danced in her
merry walk to the house. Then, crying her last words, "Be quick!" from
the door, she disappeared.

A moment later she was laughing and chattering to her children. Marjory
heard her burlesque complaints over the utter disappearance of an
omelette she had set her heart upon.

That afternoon they all played at _petits chevaux_, and the only one to
win was Madge. But Madge utterly refused to invest her gains in
Omofagas. She assigned no reasons, slating that her mother did not like
her to declare the feeling which influenced her, and Mrs. Dennison
laughed again. But Adela Ferrars would not look towards Marjory, but
kept her eyes on an old gentleman who had been playing also, and playing
with good fortune. He had looked round curiously when, in the course of
the chaff, they had mentioned Omofaga, and Adela detected in him the
wish to look again. She wondered who he was, scrutinising his faded blue
eyes and the wrinkles of weariness on his brow. Willie Ruston could have
told her. It was Baron von Geltschmidt of Frankfort.




                              CHAPTER XII.

                              IT CAN WAIT.


In all things evil and good, to the world, and--a thing quite rare--to
himself, Willie Ruston was an unaffected man. Success, the evidence of
power and the earnest of more power, gave him his greatest pleasure, and
he received it with his greatest and most open satisfaction. It did not
surprise him, but it elated him, and his habit was to conceal neither
the presence of elation nor the absence of surprise. That irony in the
old sense, which means the well-bred though hardly sincere depreciation
of a man's own qualities and achievements, was not his. When he had done
anything, he liked to dine with his friends and talk it over. He had
been sharing the Carlins' unfashionable six o'clock meal at Hampstead
this evening, and had taken the train to Baker Street, and was now
sauntering home with a cigar. He had talked the whole thing over with
them. Carlin had said that no one could have managed the affair so well
as he had, and Mrs. Carlin had not once referred to that lost _tabula in
naufragio_, the coal business. Yes, his attack on London had been a
success. He had known nothing of London, save that its denizens were
human beings, and that knowledge, whether in business or society, had
been enough. His great scheme was floated; a few months more would see
him in Omofaga; there was money to last for a long time to come; and he
had been cordially received and even made a lion of in the
drawing-rooms. They would look for his name in the papers ("and find it,
by Jove," he interpolated). Men in high places would think of him when
there was a job to be "put through;" and women, famous in regions
inaccessible to the vulgar, would recollect their talks with Mr. Ruston.
Decidedly they were human beings, and therefore, raw as he was (he just
knew that he had come to them a little raw), he had succeeded.

Yet they were, some of them, strange folk. There were complications in
them which he found it necessary to reconnoitre. They said a great many
things which they did not think, and, _en revanche_, would often only
hint what they did. And----But here he yawned, and, finding his cigar
out, relit it. He was not in the mood for analysing his acquaintance. He
let his fancy play more lightly. It was evening, and work was done. He
liked London evenings. He had liked bandying repartees with Adela
Ferrars (though she had been too much for him if she could have kept her
temper); he liked talking to Marjory Valentine and seeing her occupied
with his ideas. Most of all, he liked trying to catch Maggie Dennison's
thought as it flashed out for a moment, and fled to shelter again. He
had laughed again and again over the talk that Tom Loring had
interrupted--and not less because of the interruption. There was little
malice in him, and he bore no grudge against Tom. Even his anger at the
Omofaga articles had been chiefly for public purposes and public
consumption. It was always somebody's "game" to spoil his game, and one
must not quarrel with men for playing their own hands. Tom amused him,
and had amused him, especially by his behaviour over that talk. No doubt
the position had looked a strange one. Tom had been so shocked. Poor
Tom, it must be very serious to be so easily shocked. Mr. Ruston was not
easily shocked.

Unaffected, free from self-consciousness, undividedly bent on his
schemes, unheeding of everything but their accomplishment, he had spent
little time in considering the considerable stir which he had, in fact,
created in the circle of his more intimate associates. They had proved
pliable and pleasant, and these were the qualities he liked in his
neighbours. They said agreeable things to him, and they did what he
wanted. He had stayed not (save once, and half in jest, with Maggie
Dennison) to inquire why, and the quasi-real, quasi-burlesque
apprehension of him--burlesqued perhaps lest it should seem too
real--which had grown up among such close observers as Adela Ferrars and
Semingham, would have struck him as absurd, the outcome of that idle
business of brain which weaves webs of fine fancies round the obvious,
and loses the power of action in the fascination of self-created
puzzles. The _nuances_ of a woman's attraction towards a man, whether it
be admiration, or interest, or pass beyond--whether it be liking and
just not love--or interest running into love--or love masquerading as
interest, or what-not, Willie Ruston recked little of. He was a man, and
a young man. He liked women and clever women--yes, and handsome women.
But to spend your time thinking of or about women, or, worse still, of
or about what women thought of you, seemed poor economy of precious
days--amusing to do, maybe, in spare hours, inevitable now and
again--but to be driven or laughed away when there was work to be done.

Such was the colour of his floating thoughts, and the loose-hung
meditation brought him to his own dwelling, in a great building which
overlooked Hyde Park. He lived high up in a small, irregular,
many-cornered room, sparely-furnished, dull and pictureless. The only
thing hanging on the walls was a large scale map of Omofaga and the
neighbouring territories; in lieu of nicnacks there stood on the
mantlepiece lumps of ore, specimens from the mines of Omofaga (would not
these convince the most obstinate unbeliever?), and half-smothered by
ill-dusted papers, a small photograph of Ruston and a potent Omofagan
chief seated on the ground with a large piece of paper before them--a
treaty no doubt. A well-worn sofa, second-hand and soft, and a deep
arm-chair redeemed the place from utter comfortlessness, but it was
plain that beauty in his daily surroundings was not essential to Willie
Ruston. He did not notice furniture.

He walked in briskly, but stopped short with his hand still on the knob
of the door. Harry Dennison lay on the sofa, with his arm flung across
his face. He sprang up on Ruston's entrance.

"Hullo! Been here long? I've been dining with Carlin," said Ruston, and,
going to a cupboard, he brought out whisky and soda water.

Harry Dennison began to explain his presence. In the first place he had
nothing to do; in the second he wanted someone to talk to; in the
third--at last he blurted it out--the first, second, third and only
reason for his presence.

"I don't believe I can manage alone in town," he said.

"Not manage? There's nothing to do. And Carlin's here."

"You see I've got other work besides Omofaga," pleaded Harry.

"Oh, I know Dennisons have lots of irons in the fire. But Omofaga won't
trouble you. I've told Carlin to wire me if any news comes, and I can be
back in a few hours."

Harry had come to suggest that the expedition to Dieppe should be
abandoned for a week or two. He got no chance and sat silent.

"It's all done," continued Ruston. "The stores are all on their way.
Jackson is waiting for them on the coast. Why, the train will start
inland in a couple of months from now. They'll go very slow though. I
shall catch them up all right."

Harry brightened a little.

"Belford said it was uncertain when you would start," he said.

"It may be uncertain to Belford, it's not to me," observed Mr. Ruston,
lighting his pipe.

The speech sounded unkind; but Mr. Belford's mind dwelt in uncertainty
contentedly.

"Then you think of----?"

"My dear Dennison, I don't 'think' at all. To-day's the 12th of August.
Happen what may, I sail on the 10th of November. Nothing will keep me
after that--nothing."

"Belford started for the Engadine to-day."

"Well, he won't worry you then. Let it alone, my dear fellow. It's all
right."

Clearly Mr. Ruston meant to go to Dieppe. That was now to Harry Dennison
bad news; but he meant to go to Omofaga also, and to go soon; that was
good. Harry, however, had still something that he wished to convey--a
bit of diplomacy to carry out.

"I hope you'll find Maggie better," he began. "She was rather knocked up
when she went."

"A few days will have put her all right," responded Ruston cheerfully.

He was never ill and treated fatigue with a cheery incredulousness. But,
at least, he spoke with an utter absence of undue anxiety on the score
of another man's wife.

Harry Dennison, primed by Mrs. Cormack's suggestions, went on,

"I wish you'd talk to her as little as you can about Omofaga. She's very
interested in it, you know, and--and very excitable--and all that. We
want her mind to get a complete rest."

"Hum. I expect, then, I mustn't talk to her at all."

The manifest impossibility of making such a request did not prevent
Harry yearning after it.

"I don't ask that," he said, smiling weakly.

"It won't hurt her," said Willie Ruston. "And she likes it."

She liked it beyond question.

"It tires her," Harry persisted. "It--it gets on her nerves. It absorbs
her too much."

His face was turned up to Ruston. As he spoke the last words, Ruston
directed his eyes, suddenly and rapidly, upon him. Harry could not
escape the encounter of eyes; hastily he averted his head, and his face
flushed. Ruston continued to look at him, a slight smile on his lips.

"Absorbs her?" he repeated slowly, fingering his beard.

"Well, you know what I mean."

Another long stare showed Ruston's meditative preoccupation. Harry sat
uncomfortable under it, wishing he had not let fall the word.

"Well, I'll be careful," said Ruston at last. "Anything else?"

Harry rose. Ruston carried an atmosphere of business about with him, and
the visit seemed naturally to end with the business of it. Taking his
hat, Harry moved towards the door. Then, pausing, he smiled in an
embarrassed way, and remarked,

"You can talk to Marjory Valentine, you know."

"So I can. She's a nice girl."

Harry twirled his hat in his fingers. His brain had conceived more
diplomacy.

"It'll be a fine chance for you to win her heart," he suggested with a
tentative laugh.

"I might do worse," said Willie Ruston.

"You might--much worse," said Harry eagerly.

"Aren't you rather giving away your friend young Haselden?"

"Who told you, Ruston?"

"Lady Val. Who told you?"

"Semingham."

"Ah! Well, what would Haselden say to your idea?"

"Well, she won't have him--he's got no chance anyhow."

"All right. I'll think about it. Good-night."

He watched his guest depart, but did not accompany him on his way, and,
left alone, sat down in the deep arm-chair. His smile was still on his
lips. Poor Harry Dennison was a transparent schemer--one of those whose
clumsy efforts to avert what they fear effects naught save to suggest
the doing of it. Yet Willie Ruston's smile had more pity than scorn in
it. True, it had more of amusement than of either. He could have taken a
slate and written down all Harry's thoughts during the interview. But
whence had come the change? Why had Dennison himself bidden him to
Dieppe, to come now, a fortnight later, and beg him not to go? Why did
he now desire his wife to hear no more of Omofaga, whose chief delight
in it had been that it caught her fancy and imparted to him some of the
interest she found in it? Ruston saw in the transformation the working
of another mind.

"Somebody's been putting it into his head," he muttered, still
half-amused, but now half-angry also.

And, with his usual rapidity of judgment, he darted unhesitatingly to a
conclusion. He identified the hand in the business; he recognised whose
more subtle thoughts Harry Dennison had stumbled over and mauled in his
painful devices. But to none is it given to be infallible, and want of
doubt does not always mean absence of error. Forgetting this commonplace
truth, Willie Ruston slapped his thigh, leapt up from his chair and,
standing on the rug, exclaimed,

"Loring--by Jove!"

It was clear to him. Loring was his enemy; he had displaced Loring.
Loring hated him and Omofaga. Loring had stirred a husband's jealousy to
further his own grudge. The same temper of mind that made his anger fade
away when he had arrived at this certainty, prevented any surprise at
the discovery. It was natural in man to seek revenge, to use the nearest
weapon, to counter stroke with stroke, not to throw away any advantages
for the sake of foibles of generosity. So, then, it was Loring who bade
him not go to Dieppe, who prayed him to not to "absorb" Mrs. Dennison in
Omofaga, who was ready, notwithstanding his hatred and distrust, to see
him the lover of Marjory Valentine sooner than the too engrossing friend
of Mrs. Dennison! What a fool they must think him!--and, with this
reflection, he put the whole matter out of his head. It could wait till
he was at Dieppe, and, taking hold of the great map by the roller at the
bottom, he drew it to him. Then he reached and lifted the lamp from the
table, and set it high on the mantlepiece. Its light shone now on his
path, and with his finger he traced the red line that ran, curving and
winding, inwards from the coast, till it touched the blue letters of the
"Omofaga" that sprawled across the map. The line ended in a cross of red
paint. The cross was Fort Imperial--was to be Fort Imperial, at least;
but Willie Ruston's mind overleapt all difference of tenses. He stood
and looked, pulling hard and fast at his pipe. He was there--there in
Fort Imperial already--far away from London and London folk--from weak
husbands and their causes of anxiety--from the pleasing recreations of
fascinating society, from the covert attacks of men whose noses he had
put out of joint. He forgot them all; their feelings became naught to
him. What mattered their graces, their assaults, their weal or woe? He
was in Omofaga, carving out of its rock a stable seat, carving on the
rock face, above the seat, a name that should live.

At last he turned away, flinging his empty pipe on the table and
dropping the map from his hand.

"I shall go to bed," he said. "Three months more of it!"

And to bed he went, never having thought once during the whole evening
of a French lady, who liked to get amusement out of her neighbours, and
had stayed in town on purpose to have some more talks with Harry
Dennison. Had Willie Ruston not been quite so sure that he read Tom
Loring's character aright, he might have spared a thought for Mrs.
Cormack.




                             CHAPTER XIII.

                       A SPASM OF PENITENCE.


Tom Loring had arranged to spend the whole of the autumn in London. His
Omofaga articles had gained such favourable notice that his editor had
engaged him to contribute a series dealing with African questions and
African companies (and the latter are in the habit of producing the
former), while he was occupied, on his own account, at the British
Museum, in making way with a treatise of a politico-philosophical
description, which had been in his head for several years. He hailed
with pleasure the prospect of getting on with it; the leisure afforded
him by his departure from the Dennisons was, in its way, a consolation
for the wrench involved in the parting. Could he have felt more at ease
about the course of events in his absence, he would have endured his
sojourn in town with equanimity.

Of course, the place was fast becoming a desert, but, at this moment,
chance, which always objects to our taking things for granted, brought a
carriage exactly opposite the bench on which Tom was seated, and he
heard his name called in a high-pitched voice that he recognised.
Looking up, he saw Mrs. Cormack leaning over the side of her victoria,
smiling effusively and beckoning to him. That everyone should go save
Mrs. Cormack seemed to Tom the irony of circumstance. With a mutter to
himself, he rose and walked up to the carriage. He then perceived, to
his surprise, that it contained, hidden behind Mrs. Cormack's
sleeves--sleeves were large that year--another inmate. It was Evan
Haselden, and he greeted Tom with an off-hand nod.

"The good God," cried Mrs. Cormack, "evidently kept me here to console
young men! Are you left desolate like Mr. Haselden here?"

"Well, it's not very lively," responded Tom, as amiably as he could.

"No, it isn't," she agreed, with the slightest, quickest glance at Evan,
who was staring moodily at the tops of the trees.

Tom laughed. The woman amused him in spite of himself. And her failures
to extract entertainment from poor heart-broken Evan struck him as
humorous.

"But I'm at work," he went on, "so I don't mind."

"Ah! Are you still crushing----?"

"No," interrupted Tom quickly. "That's done."

"I should not have guessed it," said Mrs. Cormack, opening her eyes.

"I mean, I've finished the articles on that point."

"That is rather a different thing," laughed she.

"I'm afraid so," said Tom.

"I wish to heaven it wasn't!" ejaculated Evan suddenly, without shifting
his gaze from the treetops.

"Oh, he is very very bad," whispered Mrs. Cormack. "Poor young man! Are
you bad too?"

"Eh?"

"Oh, but I know."

"Oh, no, you don't," said Tom.

Suddenly Evan rose, opened the carriage door, got out, shut it, and
lifted his hat.

"Good-bye," said Mrs. Cormack, smiling merrily.

"Good-bye. Thanks," said Evan, with unchanged melancholy, and, with
another nod to Tom, he walked round to the path and strode quickly away.

"How absurd!" said she.

"Not at all. I like to see him honest about it. He's hard hit--and he's
not ashamed of it."

"Oh, well," said Mrs. Cormack, shrugging the subject away in weariness
of it. "And how do you stand banishment? Will you get in?"

"Yes, if you won't assume----"

"Too great familiarity, Mr. Loring?"

"Oh, I was only going to say--with my affairs. With me--I should be
charmed," and Tom settled himself in the victoria.

He had, now he came to think of it, been really very much bored; and the
little woman was quite a resource.

She rewarded his ironical gallantry with a look that told him she took
it for what it was worth, but liked it all the same; and, after a pause,
asked,

"And you see Mr. Dennison often?"

"Very seldom, on the contrary. I don't know what he does with himself."

"The poor man! He walks up and down. I hear him walking up and down."

"What does he do that for?"

"Ah! what? Well, he cannot be happy, can he?"

"Can't he?" said Tom, determined to understand nothing.

"You are very discreet," she said, with a malicious smile.

"I'm obliged to be. Somebody must be."

"Mr. Loring," she said abruptly, "you don't like me, neither you nor
Miss Ferrars."

"I never answer for others. For myself----"

"Oh, I know. What does it matter? Well, anyhow, I'm sorry for that poor
man."

"Your sympathy is very ready, Mrs. Cormack."

"You mean it is too soon--premature?"

"I mean it's altogether unnecessary, to my humble thinking."

"But I'm not a fool," she protested.

Tom could not help laughing. The laugh, however, rather spoilt his
argument.

"Have it your own way," he conceded, conscious of his error, and trying
to cover it by a burlesque surrender. "He's miserable."

"Well, he is."

There was a placid certainty about her that disturbed Tom's attitude of
incredulity.

"Why is he?" he asked curiously.

"I have talked to him. I know," she answered, with a nod full of
meaning.

"Oh, have you?"

"Yes, and he--well, do you want to hear, or will you be angry and
despise me as you used?"

"I want to hear."

"What did I use to say? That the man would come? Well, he has come.
_Voilà tout!_"

"Oh, so you say. But Harry doesn't think such--I beg pardon, I was about
to say, nonsense."

"Yes, he does. At least, he is afraid of it."

"How do you know?"

"I tell you, we have talked. And I saw. He almost cried that he couldn't
go to Dieppe, and that somebody else----"

Tom suddenly turned upon her.

"Who began the talk?" he demanded.

"What do you say?"

"Who began?"

"Oh, what nonsense! Who does begin to talk? How do I know? It came, Mr.
Loring."

Tom said nothing.

"You look as if you didn't believe me," she remarked, pouting.

"I don't. He's the most unsuspicious fellow alive."

"Well, if you like, I began. I'm not ashamed. But I said very little.
When he asked me if I thought it good that she and--the other--should be
together out there and he here--well, was I to say yes?"

"I think," observed Tom, in quiet and deliberate tones, "that it's a
great pity that some women can't be gagged."

"They can, but only with kisses," said Mrs. Cormack, not at all
offended. "Oh, don't be frightened. I do not wish to be gagged at all.
If I did--there is more than one man in the world."

Tom despised and half-hated her; but he liked her good-nature, and, in
his heart, admired her for not flinching. Her shamelessness was crossed
with courage.

"So you've made him miserable?"

"Well, I might say, I, a wicked Frenchwoman, that it is better to be
deceived than to be wretched. But you, an Englishman----! Oh, never, Mr.
Loring!"

Tom sat silent a little while.

"I don't know what to do," he said, half in reverie.

"Who thought you would?" asked Mrs. Cormack, unkindly.

"I believe it's all a mare's nest."

"That means a mistake, a delusion?"

"It does."

"Then I don't think you do believe it. And, if you do, you are wrong. It
is not all a--a mare's nest."

She pronounced the word with unfamiliar delicateness.

Tom knew that he did not believe that it was all a mare's nest. He would
have given everything in the world--save one thing--and that, he
thought, he had not got--to believe it.

"Then, if you believed it, why didn't you do something?" he asked rather
fiercely.

"What have you all done? I, at least, warned him. Yes, since you insist,
I hinted it. But you--you ran away; and your Adela Ferrars, she looks
prim and pained, oh! and shocked, and doesn't come so much."

It was a queer source to learn lessons from, and Tom was no less
surprised than Adela had been a day or two before at Dieppe.

"What should you do?" he asked, in new-born humility.

"I? Nothing. What is it to me?"

"What should you do, if you were me?"

"Make love to her myself," smiled Mrs. Cormack. She was having her
revenge on Tom for many a scornful speech.

"If you'd held your tongue, it would all have blown over!" he exclaimed
in exasperation.

"It will blow over still; but it will blow first," she said. "If that
contents you, hold your tongue."

Then she turned to Tom, and laid a small fore-finger on his arm.

"Mark this," said she, "he does not care for her. He cares for himself;
she is--what would you say? an incident--an accident--I do not know how
to say it--to him."

"Well, if you're right there----" began Tom in some relief.

"If I'm right there, it will make no difference--at first. But, as you
say, it will blow over--and sooner."

Tom looked at her, and thought, and looked again.

"By Jove, you're not a fool, Mrs. Cormack," said he, almost under his
breath.

Then he added, louder,

"It's the wisdom of the devil."

"Oh, you surpass yourself," she smiled. "Your compliments are
magnificent."

"You must have learnt it from him."

"Oh, no. From my husband," said Mrs. Cormack.

The carriage, which during their talk had moved slowly round the circle,
stopped again.

Mrs. Cormack turned to Tom. He was already looking at her.

"I don't understand you," said he.

"No? Well, you'll hardly believe it, but that does not surprise me."

"I'm not sure you don't mean well, if you weren't ashamed to confess
it," said Tom.

For the first time since he had known her, she blushed and looked
embarrassed. Then she began, in a quick tone,

"Well, I talked. I wanted to see how he took it; and it amused me.
And--well, our dear Maggie--she is so very magnificent at times. She
looks down so calmly--oh! from such a height--on one. She had told me
that day--well, never mind that; it was true, I daresay. I don't love
truth. I don't see what right people have to say things to me, just
because one may know they are true."

"So you made a little mischief?"

"Well, I hear that poor man walking up and down. I want to comfort him.
I asked him to come in, and he refused. Then I offered to go in--he was
very frightened. Oh, _mon Dieu_!" and she laughed almost hysterically.

This very indirect confession proved in the end to be all that Mrs.
Cormack's penitence could drive her to, and Tom left her, feeling a
little softened towards her, but hardly better equipped for action.
What, indeed, could be done? Tom's sense of futility expressed itself in
a long letter to Adela Ferrars. As he had no suggestions for present
action, he took refuge in future promises.

"It will be very awkward for me to come, but if, as time goes on, you
think I should be any good, I will come."

And Adela, when she read it, was tempted to send for him on the spot; he
would have been of no use, but he would have comforted her. But then his
presence would unquestionably exasperate Maggie Dennison. Adela decided
to wait.

Now, by the time Tom Loring's letter reached Dieppe, young Sir Walter
and Willie Ruston were on the boat, and they arrived hard on its heels.
They took up their abode at a hotel a few doors from where the
Seminghams were staying, and Walter at once went round to pay his
respects.

Ruston stayed in to write letters. So he said; but when he was alone he
stood smoking at the window and looking at the people down below.
Presently, to his surprise, he saw the same old gentleman whom Adela had
noticed in the Casino.

"The Baron, by Jove!" he exclaimed. "Now, what brings him here?"

The Baron was sauntering slowly by, wrapped in a cloak, and leaning
heavily on a malacca cane. In a moment Willie Ruston was down the stairs
and after him.

Hearing his name cried, the Baron stopped and turned round.

"What chance brings you here?" asked Willie, holding out his hand.

"Oh, hardly chance," said the Baron. "I always go to some seaside place,
and I thought I might meet friends here," and he smiled significantly.

"Yes," said Ruston, after a pause; "I believe I did mention it in
Threadneedle Street. I went in there the other day."

By the general term Threadneedle Street he meant to indicate the offices
of the Baron's London correspondents, which were situate there.

"They keep you informed, it seems?"

"I live by being kept informed," said the Baron.

Ruston was walking by him, accommodating his pace to the old man's
feeble walk.

"You mean you came to see me?" he asked.

"Well, if you'll forgive the liberty--in part."

"And why did you want me?"

"Oh, I've not lost all interest in Omofaga."

"No, you haven't," said Ruston. "On the contrary, you've been increasing
your interest."

The Baron stopped and looked at him.

"Oh, you know that?"

"Certainly."

The Baron laughed.

"Then you can tell me whether I shall lose my money," he said.

"Do you ever lose your money, Baron?"

"But am I to hear about Omofaga?" asked the Baron, countering question
by question.

"As much as you like," answered Ruston, with the indifference of perfect
candour.

"Ah, by the way, I have heard about it already. Who are the ladies here
who talk about it?"

Willie Ruston gave a careful catalogue of all the persons in Dieppe who
were interested in the Omofaga Company. The Baron identified the
Seminghams and Adela. Then he observed,

"And the other lady is Mrs. Dennison, is she?"

"She is. I'm going to her house to-morrow. Shall I take you?"

"I should be charmed."

"Very well. To-morrow afternoon."

"And you'll dine with me to-night?"

Ruston was about to refuse; but the Baron added, half seriously,

"I've come a long way to see you."

"All right, I'll come," he said. Then he paused a moment, and looked at
the Baron curiously. "And perhaps you'll tell me then," he added.

"Why I've come?"

"Yes; and why you've been buying. You were bought out. What do you want
to come in again for?"

"I'll tell you all that now," said the Baron. "I've come because I
thought I should like to see some more of you; and I've been buying
because I fancy you'll make a success of it."

Willie Ruston pulled his beard thoughtfully.

"Don't you believe me?" asked the Baron.

"Let's wait a bit," suggested Ruston. Then, with a sudden twinkle of his
eye, his holiday mood seemed to come back again. Seizing the Baron's
arm, he pressed it, and said with a laugh, "I say, Baron, if you want to
get control over Omofaga----"

"But, my dear friend----" protested the Baron.

"If you do--I only say 'if'--I'm not the only man you've got to fight.
Well, yes, I am the only _man_."

"My dear young friend, I don't understand you," pleaded the Baron.

"We'll go and see Mrs. Dennison to-morrow," said Willie Ruston.




                              CHAPTER XIV.

                         THE THING OR THE MAN.


"Well?"

It was the morning of the next day, Mrs. Dennison sat in her place in
the little garden on the cliff, and Willie Ruston stood just at the turn
of the mounting path, where Marjory had paused to look at her friend.

"Well, here I am," said he.

She did not move, but held out her hand. He advanced and took it.

"I met your children down below," he went on, "but they would hardly
speak to me. Why don't they like me?"

"Never mind the children."

"But I do mind. Most children like me."

"How is everything?"

"In London? Oh, first-rate. I saw your husband the----"

"I mean, how is Omofaga?"

"Capital; and here?"

"It has been atrociously dull. What could you expect?"

"Well, I didn't expect that, or I shouldn't have come."

"Are the stores started?"

"I thought it was holiday time? Well, yes, they are."

She had been looking at him ever since he came, and at last he noticed
it.

"Do I look well?" he asked in joke.

"You know, it's rather a pleasure to look at you," she replied. "I've
been feeling so shut in," and she pushed her hair back from her
forehead, and glanced at him with a bright smile. "And it's really going
well?"

"So well," he nodded, "that everything's quiet, and the preparations
well ahead. In three months" (and his enthusiasm began to get hold of
him) "I shall be off; in two more I hope to be actually there, and
then--why, forward!"

She had listened at first with sparkling eyes; as he finished, her lips
drooped, and she leant back in her chair. There was a moment's silence;
then she said in a low voice,

"Three months!"

"It oughtn't to take more than two, if Jackson has arranged things
properly for me."

Evidently he was thinking of his march up country; but it was the first
three mouths that were in her mind. She had longed to see the thing
really started, hastened by all her efforts the hour that was to set him
at work, and dreamt of the day when he should set foot in Omofaga. Now
all this seemed assured, imminent, almost present; yet there was no
exultation in her tone.

"I meant, before you started," she said slowly.

He looked up in surprise.

"I can't manage sooner," he said, defending himself. "You know I don't
waste time."

He was still off the scent; and even she herself was only now, for the
first time and as yet dimly, realising her own mind.

"I have to do everything myself," he said. "Dear old Carlin can't walk a
step alone, and the Board"--he paused, remembering that Harry Dennison
was on the Board--"well, I find it hard to make them move as quick as I
want. I had to fix a date, and I fixed the earliest I could be
absolutely sure of."

"Why don't they help you more?" she burst out indignantly.

"Oh, I don't want help."

"Yes, but I helped you!" she exclaimed, leaning forward, full again of
animation.

"I can't deny it," he laughed. "You did indeed."

"Yes," she said, and became again silent.

"_Apropos_," said he. "I want to bring someone to see you this
afternoon--Baron von Geltschmidt."

"Who?"

"He was the German capitalist, you know."

"What! Why, what's he doing here?"

"He came to see me--so he says. May I bring him?"

"Why, yes. He's a great--a great man, isn't he?"

"Well, he's a great financier."

"And he came to see you?"

"So he says."

"And don't you believe him?"

"I don't know. I want your opinion," answered Ruston, with a smile.

"Are you serious?" she asked quickly. "I mean, do you really want my
opinion, or are you being polite?"

"I don't think _you_ a fool, you know," said Willie Ruston.

She flashed a glance of understanding, mingled with reproach, at him,
and, leaning forward again, said,

"Has he come about Omofaga?"

"That you might tell me too--or will you want all Omofaga if you do so
much?"

For a moment she smiled in recollection. Then her face grew sad.

"Much of Omofaga I shall have!" she said.

"Oh, I'll write," he promised carelessly.

"Write!" she repeated in low, scornful tones. "Would you like to be
written to about it? It'll happen to you, and I'm to be written to!"

"Well, then, I won't write."

"Yes, do write."

Willie Ruston smiled tolerantly, but his smile was suddenly cut short,
for Mrs. Dennison, not looking at him but out to sea, asked herself in a
whisper, which was plainly not meant for him though he heard it,

"How shall I bear it?"

He had been tilting his chair back; he brought the front legs suddenly
on to the ground again and asked,

"Bear what?"

She started to find he had heard, but attempted no evasion.

"When you've gone," she answered in simple directness.

He looked at her with raised eyebrows. There was no embarrassment in her
face, and no tremble in her voice; and no passion could he detect in
either.

"How flat it will all be," she added in a tone of utter weariness.

He was half-pleased, half-piqued at the way she seemed to look at him.
It not only failed to satisfy him, but stirred a new dissatisfaction. It
hinted much, but only, it seemed to him, to negative it. It left Omofaga
still all in all, and him of interest only because he would talk of and
work for Omofaga, and keep the Omofaga atmosphere about her. Now this
was wrong, for Omofaga existed for him, not he for Omofaga; that was the
faith of true disciples.

"You don't care about me," he said. "It's all the Company--and only the
Company because it gives you something to do. Well, the Company'll go on
(I hope), and you'll hear about our doings."

She turned to him with a puzzled look.

"I don't know what it is," she said with a shake of her head. Then, with
a sudden air of understanding, as though she had caught the meaning that
before eluded her, she cried, "I'm just like you, I believe. If I went
to Omofaga, and you had to stay----"

"Oh, it would be the deuce!" he laughed.

"Yes, yes. Well, it is--the deuce," she answered, laughing in return.
But in a moment she was grave again.

Her attraction for him--the old special attraction of the unknown and
unconquered--came strongly upon him, and mingled more now with pleasure
in her. Her silence let him think; and he began to think how wasted she
was on Harry Dennison. Another thought followed, and to that he gave
utterance.

"But you've lots of things you could do at home; you could have plenty
to work at, and plenty of--of influence, and so on."

"Yes, but--oh, it would come to Mr. Belford! Who wants to influence Mr.
Belford? Besides, I've grown to love it now, haven't you?"

"Omofaga?"

"Yes! It's so far off--and most people don't believe in it."

"No, confound them! I wish they did!"

"Do you? I'm not sure I do."

She was so absorbed that she had not heard an approaching step, and was
surprised to see Ruston jump up while her last sentence was but half
said.

"My dear Miss Valentine," he cried, his face lighting up with a smile of
pleasure, "how pleasant to meet you again!"

There was no mistaking the sincerity of his greeting. Marjory blushed as
she gave him her hand, and he fixed his eyes on her in undisguised
approval.

"You're looking splendid," he said. "Is it the air or the bathing or
what?"

Perhaps it was both in part, but, more than either, it was a change that
worked outwards from within, and was giving to her face the expression
without which mere beauty of form or colour is poor in allurement. The
last traces of what Lord Semingham meant by "insipidity" had been chased
away. Ruston felt the change though he could not track it.

Marjory, a bad dissembler, greeted him nervously, almost coldly; she was
afraid to let her gaze rest on him or on Mrs. Dennison for long, lest it
should hint her secret. Her manner betrayed such uneasiness that Ruston
noticed it. Mrs. Dennison did not, for something in Ruston's face had
caught her attention. She had seen many expressions in his eyes as he
looked at her--of sympathy, amusement, pleasure, even (what had pleased
her most) puzzle, but never what she saw now. The look now was a man's
homage to beauty--it differs from every other--a lover hardly seems to
have it unless his love be beautiful--and she had never yet seen it when
he looked at her. She turned away towards the sea, grasping the arm of
her chair with a sudden grip that streaked her fingers red and white.
Marjory also saw, and a wild hope leapt up in her that her task needed
not the doing. But a moment later Ruston was back in Omofaga--young Sir
Walter being his bridge for yet another transit.

"How's Mr. Dennison?" asked Marjory, when he gave her an opportunity.

"Oh, he's all right. You'd have heard, I suppose, if he hadn't been?"

It was true. Marjory recognised the inappropriateness of her question,
but Mrs. Dennison came to the rescue.

"Marjory wants a personal impression," she said. "You know she and my
husband are great allies!"

"Well," laughed Ruston, "he was a little cross with me because I would
come to Dieppe. I should have felt the same in his place; but he's well
enough, I think."

"I was going down to find Lady Semingham," said Marjory. "Are you coming
down this morning, Maggie?"

"Maggie" was something new--adopted at Mrs. Dennison's request.

"I think not, dear."

"I am," said Ruston, taking up his walking stick. "I shall be up with
the Baron this afternoon, Mrs. Dennison. Come along, Miss Valentine.
We've been having no end of palaver about Omofaga," and as they
disappeared down the cliff Mrs. Dennison heard his voice talking eagerly
to Marjory.

She felt her heart beating quickly. She had to conquer a strange
impulse to rise and hurry after them. She knew that she must be
jealous--jealous, she said to herself, trying to laugh, that he should
talk about Omofaga to other people. Nonsense! Why, he was always talking
of it! There was a stronger feeling in her, less vague, of fuller force.
It had come on her when he spoke of his going to Africa, but then it was
hard to understand, for with all her heart she thought she was still
bent on his going. It spoke more clearly now, stirred by the threat of
opposition. At first it had been the thing--the scheme--the idea--that
had caught her; she had taken the man for the thing's sake, because to
do such a thing proved him a man after her pattern. But now, as she sat
in the little garden, she dimly traced her change--she loved the scheme
because it was his. She did not shrink from testing it. "Yes," she
murmured, "if he gave it up now, I should go on with him to something
else." Then came another step--why should he not give it up? Why should
he go into banishment--he who might go near to rule England? Why should
he empty her life by going? But if he went--and she could not persuade
herself that she had power to stop his going--he must go from her side,
it must be she who gave him the stirrup-cup, she towards whom he would
look across the sea, she for whom he would store up his brief, grim
tales of victory, in whose eyes he would see the reflection of his
triumphs. Could she fill such a place in his life? She knew that she did
not yet, but she believed in herself. "I feel large enough," she said
with a smile.

Yet there was something that she had not yet touched in him--the thing
which had put that look in his eyes, a thing that for the moment at
least Marjory Valentine had touched. Why had she not? She answered, with
a strong clinging to self-approbation, that it was because she would
not. She told herself that she had asked nothing from her intercourse
with him save the play of mind on mind--it was her mind and nothing else
that her own home failed to satisfy. She recalled the scornful disgust
with which she had listened to Semingham when he hinted to her that
there was only one way to rule a man. It seemed less disgusting to her
now than when he spoke. For, in the light of that look in his eyes,
there stood revealed a new possibility--always obvious, never hitherto
thought of--that another would take and wield the lower mighty power
that she had disdained to grasp, and by the might of the lower wrest
from her the higher. Was not the lower solidly based in nature, the
higher a fanciful structure resting in no sound foundation? The moment
this spectre took form before her--the moment she grasped that the
question might lie between her and another--that it might be not what
she would take but what she could keep--her heart cried out, to ears
that shrank from the tumultuous reckless cry, that less than all was
nothing, that, if need be, all must be paid for all. And, swift on the
horror of her discovery, came the inevitable joy in it--joy that will be
silenced by no reproofs, not altogether abashed by any shame, that no
pangs can rob utterly of its existence--a thing to smother, to hide, to
rejoice in.

Yet she would not face unflinchingly what her changing mind must mean.
She tried to put it aside--to think of something, ah! of anything else,
of anything that would give her foothold.

"I love my husband," she found herself saying. "I love poor old Harry
and the children." She repeated it again and again, praying the
shibboleth to show its saving virtue. It was part of her creed, part of
her life, to be a good wife and mother--part of her traditions that
women who were not that were nothing at all, and that there was nothing
a woman might take in exchange for this one splendid, all-comprehending
virtue. To that she must stand--it was strange to be driven to argue
with herself on such a point. She mused restlessly as she sat; she
listened eagerly for her children's footsteps mounting the hill; she
prayed an interruption to rescue her from her thoughts. Just now she
would think no more about it; it was thinking about it that did all the
harm. Yet while she was alone she could not choose but surrender to the
thought of it--to the thought of what a price she must pay for her
traditions and her creed. The payment, she cried, would leave life an
empty thing. Yet it must be paid--if it must. Was it now come to that?
Was this the parting of the roads?

"I must, yet I cannot! I must not, yet I must." It was the old clash of
powers, the old conflict of commands, the old ruthless will of nature
that makes right too hard and yet fastens anguish upon sin--that makes
us yearn for and hate the higher while we love and loathe the lower.




                              CHAPTER XV.

                          THE WORK OF A WEEK.


Much went to spoil the stay at Dieppe, but the only overt trouble was
the feeble health of the Baron von Geltschmidt. The old man had rapidly
made his way into the liking of his new acquaintances. Semingham found
his dry, worldly-wise, perhaps world-weary, humour an admirable sauce to
conversation; Adela Ferrars detected kindness in him; his gallant
deference pleased Lady Semingham. They were all grieved when the cold
winds laid hold of him, forced him to keep house often, and drove him to
furs and a bath-chair, even when the sun shone most brightly. Although
they liked him, they implored him to fly south. He would not move,
finding pleasure in them, and held fast by an ever-increasing uneasy
interest in Willie Ruston. Adela quarrelled with him heartily and
energetically on this score. To risk health because anyone was
interesting was absurd; to risk it on Ruston's account most
preposterous. "I'd be ill to get away from him," she declared. The Baron
was obstinate, fatalistic as to his health, infatuated in his folly;
stay he would, while Ruston stayed. Yet what Ruston did, pleased him
not; for the better part of the man--what led him to respond to kindness
or affection, and abate something of his hardness where he met no
resistance--seemed to be conspiring with his old domineering mood to
lead him beyond all power of warning or recall.

A week had passed since Ruston paid his first visit to Mrs. Dennison in
the cottage on the cliff. It was a bright morning. The Baron was feeling
stronger; he had left his chair and walked with Adela to a seat. There
they sat side by side, in the occasional talk and easy silences of
established friendship. The Baron smoked his cigar; Adela looked idly at
the sea; but suddenly the Baron began to speak.

"I had a talk with our friend, Lord Semingham, this morning," said he.

"About anything in particular?"

"I meant it to be, but he doesn't like talk that leads anywhere in
particular."

"No, he doesn't," said Adela, with a slight smile.

The Baron sat silent for a moment, then he said,

"May I talk to you, Miss Ferrars?" and he looked at her inquiringly.

"Why, of course," she answered. "Is it about yourself, Baron? You're not
worse, are you?"

He took no notice of her question, but pointed towards the cliff.

"What is happening up there?" he asked.

Adela started. She had not realised that he meant to talk on that
subject.

He detected her shrinking and hastened to defend himself.

"Or are we to say nothing?" he asked. "Nothing? When we all see! Don't
you see? Doesn't Miss Valentine see? Is she so sad for nothing? Oh,
don't shake your head. And the other--this Mrs. Dennison? Am I to go
on?"

"No," said Adela sharply; and added, a moment later, "I know."

"And what does he mean?"

"He?" cried Adela. "Oh, he's not human."

"Nay, but he's terribly human," said the old Baron.

Adela looked round at him, but then turned away.

"I know what I would say, but I may not say it," pursued the Baron. "To
you I may not say it. I know him. He will take, if he is offered."

His voice sank to a whisper.

"Then God help her," murmured Adela under her breath, while her cheeks
flamed red.

"Yes, he will take, and he will go. Ah, he is a man to follow and to
believe in--to trust your money, your fortune, your plans, even your
secrets to; but----"

He paused, flinging away his extinct cigar.

"Well?" asked Adela in a low tone, eager in spite of her hatred of the
topic.

"Never your love," said he; and added, "yet I believe I, who am old
enough to know better, and too old to learn better, have almost given
him mine. Well, I am not a woman."

"He can't hurt you," said Adela.

"Yes, he can," said the Baron with a dreary smile.

Adela was not thinking of her companion.

"Why do you talk of it?" she asked impatiently.

"I know I was wrong."

"No, no. I mean, why do you talk of it now?"

"Because," said the Baron, "he will not. Have you seen no change in him
this week? A week ago, he laughed when I talked to him. He did not mind
me speaking--it was still a trifle--nonsense--a week ago; if you like,
an amusement, a pastime!"

"Well, and now?"

"Now he tells me to hold my tongue. And yet I am glad for one thing.
That girl will not have him for a husband."

"Glad! Why, Baron, don't you see----"

"Yes, I see. Still I am glad."

"I can't go on talking about it; but is there no hope?"

"Where is it? For the time--mind you for the time--he is under that
other woman's power."

"She's under his, you mean."

"I mean both. She was a friend of yours. Yes. She is not altogether a
bad woman; but she has had a bad fortune. Ah, there she is, and he with
her."

As he spoke, Mrs. Dennison and Ruston came by. Mrs. Dennison flung them
a glance of recognition; it was hardly more, and even for so much she
seemed to grudge the interruption. Ruston's greeting was more
ceremonious; he smiled, but his brows contracted a little, and he said
to his companion,

"Miss Ferrars isn't pleased with me."

"That hurts?" she asked lightly.

"No," he answered, after a short pause, "I don't know that it does."

But the frown dwelt a little longer on his face.

"Sit down here," she said, and they sat down in full view of Adela and
the Baron, about twenty yards off.

"She's mad," murmured Adela, and the Baron muttered assent.

It was the time of the morning when everybody was out. Presently Lord
and Lady Semingham strolled by--Lady Semingham did not see Maggie
Dennison, her husband did, and Adela caught the look in his eye. Then
down from the hill and on to the grass came Marjory Valentine. She saw
both couples, and, for a perceptible moment, stood wavering between
them. She looked pale and weary. Mrs. Dennison indicated her with the
slightest gesture.

"You were asking for her. There she is," she said to Willie Ruston.

"Well, I think I'll go and ask her."

"What?"

"To come for a walk."

"Now?"

"Why not?" he asked with a surprised smile.

As he spoke, Marjory's hesitation ended; she joined Adela and the Baron.

"How rude you are!" exclaimed Mrs. Dennison angrily, "you asked me to
come out with you."

"So I did. By Jove, so I did! But you don't walk, do you? And I feel
rather like a walk now."

"Oh, if you prefer her society----"

"Her prattle," he said, smiling, "amuses me. You and I always discuss
high matters, you see."

"She doesn't prattle, and you know it."

He looked at her for a moment. He had gone so far as to rise, but he
resumed his seat.

"What's the matter?" he asked tolerantly.

Maggie Dennison's lip quivered. The week that had passed had been a
stormy one to her. There had been a breaking-down of barriers--barriers
of honour, conscience, and pride. All she could do to gain or keep her
mastery she had done. She had all but thrown herself at his feet. She
hated to think of the things she had said or half-said; and she had seen
Marjory's eyes look wondering horror and pitying contempt at her. Of her
husband she would not think. And she had won in return--she knew not
what. It hung still in the balance. Sometimes he would seem engrossed in
her; but again he would turn to Marjory or another with a kind of
relief, as though she wearied him. And of her struggles, of the great
humiliations she suffered, of all she sacrificed to him, he seemed
unconscious. Yet, cost what it might, she could not let him go now. The
screen of Omofaga was dropped; she knew that it was the man whose life
she was resolute to fill; whether she called it love for him or what
else mattered little; it seemed rather a mere condition of existence,
necessary yet not sweet, even revolting; but its alternative was death.

She had closed her eyes for a moment under the stress of her pain. When
she opened them, he was looking at her. And the look she knew was at
last in his eyes. She put up her hand to ward it off; it woke her
horror, but it woke her delight also. She could not choose whether to
banish it, or to live in it all her life. She tried to speak, but her
utterance was choked.

"Why, I believe you're--jealous," said Willie Ruston. "But then they
always say I'm a conceited chap."

He spoke with a laugh, but he looked at her intently. The little scene
was the climax of a week's gradual betrayal. Often in all the hours they
had spent together, in all the engrossing talks they had had, something
of the kind had appeared and disappeared; he had wondered at her
changefulness, her moods of expansion and of coldness--a rapturous
greeting of him to be followed by a cold dismissal--an eager sympathy
alternating with wilful indifference. She had, too, fits of prudence,
when she would not go with him--and then spasms of recklessness when her
manner seemed to defy all restraint and mock at the disapproval of her
friends. On these puzzles--to him, preoccupied as he was and little
versed in such matters, they had seemed such--the present moment shed
its light. He recalled, with understanding, things that had passed
meaninglessly before his eyes, that he seemed to have forgotten
altogether; the ambiguous things became plain; what had been, though
plain, yet strange, fell into its ordered place and became natural. The
new relation between them proclaimed itself the interpretation and the
work of the bygone week.

Her glove lay in her lap, and he touched it lightly; the gesture
speaking of their sudden new familiarity.

Her reproach was no less eloquent; she rebuked not the thing, but the
rashness of it.

"Don't do that. They're looking," she found voice to whisper.

He withdrew his hand, and, taking off his hat, pushed the hair back from
his forehead. Presently he looked at her with an almost comical air of
perplexity; she was conscious of the glance, but she would not meet it.
He pursed his lips to whistle.

"Don't," she whispered sharply. "Don't whistle." A whistle brought her
husband to her mind.

The checked whistle rudely reflected his mingled feelings. He wished
that he had been more on his guard--against her and against himself.
There had been enough to put him on his guard; if he had been put on his
guard, this thing need not have happened. He called the thing in his
thoughts "inconvenient." He was marvellously awake to the inconvenience
of it; it was that which came uppermost in his mind as he sat by Maggie
Dennison. Yet, in spite of a phrase that sounded so cold and brutal, his
reflections paid her no little compliment; for he called the revelation
inconvenient all the more, and most of all, because he found it of
immense interest, because it satisfied suddenly and to the full a sense
of interest and expectation that had been upon him, because it seemed to
make an immense change in his mind and to alter the conditions of his
life. Had it not done all this, its inconvenience would have been much
less--to him and save in so far as he grieved for her--nay, it would
have been, in reality, nothing. It was inconvenient because it twisted
his purposes, set him at jar with himself, and cut across the orderly
lines he had laid down--and because, though it did all this, he was not
grieved nor angry at it.

He rose to his feet. Mrs. Dennison looked up quickly.

"I shall go for my walk now," he said, and he added in answer to her
silent question, "Oh, yes, alone. I've got a thing or two I want to
think about."

Her eyes dropped as he spoke. He had smiled, and she, in spite of
herself, had smiled in answer; but she could not look at him while she
smiled. He stood there for an instant, smiling still; then he grew
grave, and turned to walk away. Her sigh witnessed the relaxation of the
strain. But, after one step, he faced her again, and said, as though the
idea had just struck him,

"I say, when does Dennison come?"

"In a week," she answered.

For just a moment again, he stood still, thoughtfully looking at her.
Then he lifted his hat, wheeled round, and walked briskly off towards
the jetty at the far end of the expanse of grass. Adela Ferrars, twenty
yards off, marked his going with a sigh of relief.

Mrs. Dennison sat where she was a little while longer. Her agitation was
quickly passing, and there followed on it a feeling of calm. She seemed
to have resigned charge of herself, to have given her conduct into
another's keeping. She did not know what he would do; he had uttered no
word of pleasure or pain, praise or blame; and that question at the
last--about her husband--was ambiguous. Did he ask it, fearing Harry's
arrival, or did he think the arrival of her husband would end an awkward
position and set him free? Really, she did not know. She had done what
she could--and what she could not help. He must do what he liked--only,
knowing him, she did not think that she had set an end to their
acquaintance. And that for the moment was enough.

"A woman, Bessie," she heard a voice behind her saying, "may be anything
from a cosmic force to a clothes-peg."

"I don't know what a cosmic force is," said Lady Semingham.

"A cosmic force? Why----"

"But I don't want to know, Alfred. Why, Maggie, that's a new shade of
brown on your shoes. Where do you get them?"

Mrs. Dennison gave her bootmaker's address, and Lady Semingham told her
husband to remember it. She never remembered that he always forgot such
things.

The arrival of the Seminghams seemed to break the spell which had held
Mrs. Dennison apart from the group over against her. Adela strolled
across, followed by Marjory, and the Baron on Marjory's arm. The whole
party gathered in a cluster; but Marjory hung loosely on the outskirts
of the circle, and seemed scarcely to belong to it.

The Baron seated himself in the place Willie Ruston had left empty. The
rest stood talking for a minute or two, then Semingham put his hand in
his pocket and drew out a folded sheet of tracing-paper.

"We're all Omofagites here, aren't we?" he said; "even you, Baron, now.
Here's a plan Carlin has just sent me. It shows our territory."

Everybody crowded round to look as he unfolded it. Mrs. Dennison was
first in undisguised eagerness; and Marjory came closer, slipping her
arm through Adela Ferrars'.

"What does the blue mean?" asked Adela.

"Native settlements."

"Oh! And all that brown?--it's mostly brown."

"Brown," answered Semingham, with a slight smile, "means unexplored
country."

"I should have made it all brown," said Adela, and the Baron gave an
appreciative chuckle.

"And what are these little red crosses?" asked Mrs. Dennison, laying the
tip of her finger on one.

"Eh? What, those? Oh, let me see. Here, just hold it while I look at
Carlin's letter. He explains it all," and Lord Semingham began to fumble
in his breast-pocket.

"Dear me," said Bessie Semingham, in a tone of delicate pleasure, "they
look like tombstones."

"Hush, hush, my dear lady," cried the old Baron; "what a bad omen!"

"Tombstones," echoed Maggie Dennison thoughtfully. "So they do--just
like tombstones."

A pause fell on the group. Adela broke it.

"Well, Director, have you found your directions?" she asked briskly.

"It was a momentary lapse of memory," said Semingham with dignity.
"Those--er--little----"

"No, not tombstones," interrupted the Baron earnestly.

"Little--er--signposts are, of course, the forts belonging to the
Company. What else should they be?"

"Oh, _forts_," murmured everybody.

"They are," continued Lord Semingham apologetically, "in the nature of a
prophecy at present, as I understand."

"A very bad prophecy, according to Bessie," said Mrs. Dennison.

"I hope," said the Baron, shaking his head, "that the official name is
more correct than Lady Semingham's."

"So do I," said Marjory; and added, before she could think not to add,
and with unlucky haste, "my brother's going out, you know."

Mrs. Dennison looked at her. Then she crossed over to her, saying to
Adela,

"You never let me have a word with my own guest, except at breakfast and
bedtime. Come and walk up and down with me, Marjory."

Marjory obeyed; the group began to scatter.

"But didn't they look like tombstones, Baron?" said Bessie Semingham
again, as she sat down and made room for the old man beside her. When
she had an idea she liked it very much. He began to be voluble in his
reproof of her gloomy fancies; but she merely laughed in glee at her
ingenuity.

Adela, by a gesture, brought Semingham to her side and walked a few
paces off with him.

"Will you go with me to the post-office?" she said abruptly.

"By all means," he answered, feeling for his glass.

"Oh, you needn't get your glass to spy at me with."

"Dear, dear, you use one yourself!"

"I'll tell you myself why I'm going. You're going to send a telegram."

"Am I?"

"Yes; to invite someone to stay with you. Lord Semingham, when you find
a woman relies on a man--on one man only--in trouble, what do you
think?"

She asked the question in a level voice, looking straight before her.

"That she's fond of him."

"And does he--the man--think the same?"

"Generally. I think most men would. They're seldom backward to think it,
you know."

"Then," she said steadily, "you must think, and he must think, what you
like. I can't help it. I want you to wire and ask a man to come and stay
with you."

He turned to her in surprise.

"Tom Loring," she said, and the moment the name left her lips Semingham
hastily turned his glance away.

"Awkward--with the other fellow here," he ventured to suggest.

"Mr. Ruston doesn't choose your guests."

"But Mrs.----"

"Oh, fancy talking of awkwardness now! He used to influence her once,
you know. Perhaps he might still. Do let us try," and her voice trembled
in earnestness.

"We'll try. Will he come? He's very angry with her."

And Adela answered, still looking straight in front of her,

"I'm going to send him a wire, too."

"I'm very glad to hear it," said Lord Semingham.




                              CHAPTER XVI.

                           THE LAST BARRIERS.


Willie Ruston rested his elbows on the jetty-wall and gazed across the
harbour entrance. He had come there to think; and deliberate thinking
was a rare thing for him to set his head to. His brain dealt
generally--even with great matters, as all brains deal with small--in
rapid half-unconscious beats; the process coalescing so closely with the
decision as to be merged before it could be recognised. But about this
matter he meant to think; and the first result of his determination was
(as it often is in such a case) that nothing at all relevant would stay
by him. There was a man fishing near, and he watched the float; he
looked long at the big hotel at Puys, which faced him a mile away, and
idly wondered whether it were full; he followed the egress of a fishing
boat with strict attention. Then, in impatience, he turned round and sat
down on the stone bench and let his eyes see nothing but the flags of
the pavement. Even then he hardly thought; but after a time he became
vaguely occupied with Maggie Dennison, his mind playing to and fro over
her voice, her tricks of manner, her very gait, and at last settling
more or less resolutely on the strange revelation of herself which she
had gradually made and had consummated that day. It changed his feelings
towards her; but it did not change them to contempt. He had his ideas,
but he did not make ideal figures out of humanity; and humanity could go
very far wrong and sink very deep in its lower possibilities without
shocking him. Nor did he understand her, nor realise how great a
struggle had brought what he saw to birth. It seemed to him a thing not
unnatural, even in her, who was in much unlike most other women. There
are dominions that are not to be resisted, and we do not think people
weak simply because they are under our own influence. His surprise was
reserved for the counter-influence which he felt, and strove not to
acknowledge; his contempt for the disturbance into which he himself was
thrown. At that he was half-displeased, puzzled, and alarmed; yet that,
too, had its delight.

"What rot it is!" he muttered, in the rude dialect of self-communion,
which sums up a bewildering conflict in a word of slang.

He was afraid of himself--and his exclamation betrayed the fear. Men of
strong will are not all will; the strong will has other strong things to
fight, and the strong head has mighty rebels to hold down. That he felt;
but his fear of himself had its limits. He was not the man--as he saw
very well at this moment, and recognised with an odd mixture of pride
and humiliation--to give up his life to a passion. Had that been the
issue clearly and definitely set before him he would not have sat
doubtful on the jetty. He understood what of nobility lay in such a
temperament, and his humiliation was because it made no part of him; but
the pride overmastered, and at last he was glad to say to himself that
there was no danger of his losing all for love. Indeed, was he in love?
In love in the grand sense people talked and wrote about so much? Well,
there were other senses, and there were many degrees. The question he
weighed, or rather the struggle which he was undergoing, was between
resisting or yielding before a temptation to take into his life
something which should not absorb it, but yet in a measure alter it,
which allured him all the more enticingly because, judging as he best
could, he could see no price which must be paid for it--well, except
one. And, as the one came into his mind, it made him pause, and he mused
on it, looking at it in all lights. Sometimes he put the price as an act
of wrong which would stain him--for, apart from other, maybe greater,
maybe more fanciful obstacles, Harry Dennison held him for a
friend--sometimes as an act of weakness which would leave him
vulnerable. And, after these attempted reasonings, he would fall again
to thinking of Maggie Dennison, her voice, her manner, and the
revelation of herself; and in these picturings the reasoning died away.

There are a few deliberate sinners, a few by whom "Evil, be thou my
Good" is calmly uttered as a dedication and a sacrament, but most men do
not make up their minds to be sinners or determine in cool resolve to do
acts of the sort that lurked behind Willie Ruston's picturings. They
only fail to make up their minds not to do them. Ruston, in a fury of
impatience, swept all his musings from him--it led to nothing. It left
him where he was. He was vexing himself needlessly; he told himself that
he could not decide what he ought to do. In truth, he did not choose to
decide what it was that he chose to do. And with the thoughts that he
drove away went the depression they had carried with them. He was
confident again in himself, his destiny, his career; and in its fancied
greatness, the turmoil he had suffered sank to its small proportions. He
returned to his old standpoint, and to the old medley of pride and shame
it gave him; he might be of supreme importance to Maggie Dennison, but
she was only of some importance to him. He could live without her. But,
at present, he regarded her loss as a thing not necessary to undergo.

It was late in the day that he met young Sir Walter, who ran to him,
open-mouthed with news. Walter was afraid that the news would be
unpalatable, and could not understand such want of tact in Semingham. To
ask Tom Loring while Ruston was there argued a bluntness of perception
strange to young Sir Walter. But, be the news good or bad, he had only
to report; and report it he did straightway to his chief. Willie Ruston
smiled, and said that, if Loring did not mind meeting him, he did not
mind meeting Loring; indeed, he would welcome the opportunity of proving
to that unbeliever that there was water somewhere within a hundred miles
of Fort Imperial (which Tom in one of those articles had sturdily
denied). Then he flirted away a stone with his stick and asked if anyone
had yet told Mrs. Dennison. And, Sir Walter thinking not, he said,

"Oh, well, I'm going there. I'll tell her."

"She'll know why he's coming," said Walter, nodding his head wisely.

"Will she? Do you know?" asked Ruston with a smile--young Sir Walter's
wisdom was always sure of that tribute from him.

"If you'd seen Adela Ferrars, you'd know too. She tries to make believe
it's nothing, but she's--oh, she's----"

"Well?"

"She's all of a flutter," laughed Walter.

"You've got to the bottom of that," said Ruston in a tone of conviction.

"Still, I think it's inconsiderate of Loring; he must know that Mrs.
Dennison will find it rather awkward. But, of course, if a fellow's in
love, he won't think of that."

"I suppose not," said Willie Ruston, smiling again at this fine scorn.

Then, with a sudden impulse, struck perhaps with an envy of what he
laughed at, he put his arm through his young friend's, and exclaimed,
with a friendly confidential pressure of the hand,

"I say, Val, I wish the devil we were in Omofaga, don't you?"

"Rather!" came full and rich from his companion's lips.

"With a few thousand miles between us and everything--and everybody!"

Young Sir Walter's eyes sparkled.

"Off in three months now," he reminded his leader exultingly.

It could not be. The Fates will not help in such a fashion, it is not
their business to cut the noose a man ties round his neck--happy is he
if they do not draw it tight. With a sigh, Willie Ruston dropped his
companion's arm, and left him with no other farewell than a careless
nod. Of Tom Loring's coming he thought little. It might be that Sir
Walter had seen most of its meaning, and that Semingham was acting as a
benevolent match-maker--a character strange for him, and amusing to see
played--but, no doubt, there was a little more. Probably Tom had some
idea of turning him from his path, of combating his influence, of
disputing his power. Well, Tom had tried that once, and had failed; he
would fail again. Maggie Dennison had not hesitated to resent such
interference; she had at once (Ruston expressed it to himself) put Tom
in his right place. Tom would be no more to her at Dieppe than in
London--nay, he would be less, for any power unbroken friendship and
habit might have had then would be gone by now. Thus, though he saw the
other meaning, he made light of it, and it was as a bit of gossip
concerning Adela Ferrars, not as tidings which might affect herself,
that he told Mrs. Dennison of Tom's impending arrival.

On her the announcement had a very different effect. For her the whole
significance lay in what Ruston ignored, and none in what had caught his
fancy. He was amazed to see the rush of colour to her cheeks.

"Tom Loring coming here!" she cried in something like horror.

Again, and with a laugh, Ruston pointed out the motive of his coming, as
young Sir Walter had interpreted it; but he added, as though in
concession, and with another laugh,

"Perhaps he wants to keep his eye on me, too. He doesn't trust me
further than he can see me, you know."

Without looking at him or seeming to listen to his words, she asked, in
low, indignant tones,

"How dare he come?"

Willie Ruston opened his eyes. He did not understand so much emotion
spent on such a trifle. Say it was bad taste in Loring to come, or an
impertinence! Well, it was not a tragedy at all events. He was almost
angry with her for giving importance to it; and the importance she gave
set him wondering. But before he could translate his feeling into words,
she turned to him, leaning across the table that stood between them, and
clasping her hands.

"I can't bear to have him here now," she murmured.

"What harm will he do? You needn't see anything of him," rejoined
Ruston, more astonished at each new proof of disquietude in her.

But Tom Loring was not to be so lightly dismissed from her mind; and she
did not seem to heed when Ruston added, with a laugh,

"You got rid of him once, didn't you? I should think you could again."

"Ah, then! That was different."

He looked at her curiously. She was agitated, but there seemed to be
more than agitation. As he read it, it was fear; and discerning it, he
spoke in growing surprise and rising irritation.

"You look as if you were afraid of him."

"Afraid of him?" she broke out. "Yes, I am afraid of him."

"Of Loring?" he exclaimed in sheer wonder. "Why, in heaven's name?
Loring's not----"

He was going to say "your husband," but stopped himself.

"I can't face him," she whispered. "Oh, you know! Why do you torment me?
Or don't you know? Oh, how strange you are!"

And now there was fear in her eyes when she looked at Ruston.

He sat still a moment, and then in slow tones he said,

"I don't see what concern your affairs are of Loring's, or mine either,
by God!"

At the last word his voice rose a little, and his lips shut tight as it
left them.

"Oh, it's easy for you," she said, half in anger at him, half in scorn
of herself. "You don't know what he is--what he was--to me."

"What was Loring to you?" he asked in sharp, imperious tones--tones that
made her hurriedly cry,

"No, no; not that, not that. How could you think that of me?"

"What then?" came curt and crisp from him, her reproach falling
unheeded.

"Oh, I wish--I wish you could understand just a little! Do you think
it's all nothing to me? Do you think I don't mind?"

"I don't know what it is to you," he said doggedly. "I know it's nothing
to Loring."

"I don't believe," she went on, "that he's coming because of Adela at
all."

And as she spoke, she met his eyes for a moment, and then shrank from
them.

"Come, shall we speak plainly?" he asked with evident impatience.

"Ah, you will, I know," she wailed, with a smile and a despairing
gesture. She loved and dreaded him for it. "Not too plainly, Willie!"

His mouth relaxed.

"Why do you worry about the fellow?" he asked.

"Well, I'll speak plainly, too," she cried. "He's not a fool; and he's
an honest man. That's why I don't want him here;" and enduring only till
she had flung out the truth, she buried her face in her hands.

"I've had enough of him," said Willie Ruston, frowning. "He's always got
in my way; first about the Company--and now----"

He broke off, pushing his chair back, and rising to his feet. He walked
to the window of the little sitting-room where they were; the sun was
setting over the sea, and early dusk gathering. It was still, save for
the sound of the waves.

"Is there nobody at home?" he asked, with his back towards her.

"No. Marjory and the children have gone down to the _Rome_ to have tea
with Bessie Semingham."

He waited a moment longer, looking out, then he came back and stood
facing her. She was leaning her head on her hand. At last she spoke in a
low voice.

"He's Harry's friend," she said, "and he used to be mine; and he trusted
me."

Willie Ruston threw his head back with a little sharp jerk.

"Oh, well, I didn't come to talk about Tom Loring," he said. "If you
value his opinion so very much, why, you must keep it; that's all," and
he moved towards where his hat was lying. "But I'm afraid I can't share
my friends with him."

"Oh, I know you won't share anything with anybody," said Maggie
Dennison, her voice trembling between a sob and a laugh.

He turned instantly. His face lighted up, and the sun, casting its last
rays on her eyes, made them answer with borrowed brilliance.

"I won't share you with Loring, anyhow," he cried, walking close up to
her, and resting his hand on the table.

She laid hers gently on it.

"Don't go to Omofaga, Willie," she said.

For a moment he sheerly stared at her; then he burst into a merry
unrestrained peal of laughter. Next he lifted her hand and kissed it.

"You are the most wonderful woman in the world," said he, his mouth
quivering with amusement.

"Oh!" she exclaimed, throwing her arms wide for a moment.

"Well, what's the matter? What have I done wrong now?"

She rose and walked up and down the room.

"I wish I'd never seen you," she said from the far end of it.

"I wish I'd never seen--Tom Loring."

"Ah, that's the only thing!" she cried. "I may live or I may die, or I
may--do anything you like; but I mustn't have another friend! I mustn't
give a thought to what anybody else thinks of me!"

"You mustn't balance me against Tom Loring," he answered between his
teeth, all signs of his merriment gone now.

For a moment--not long, but seeming very long--there was silence in the
room; and, while the brief stillness reigned, she fought a last battle
against him, calling loyalty and friendship to her aid, praying their
alliance against the overbearing demand he made on her--against his
roughness, his blindness to all she suffered for him. But the strife was
short. Lifting her hands above her head, and bringing them down through
the air as with a blow, she cried,

"My God, I balance nothing against you!"

Her reward--her only reward--seemed on the instant to be hers. Willie
Ruston was transformed; his sullenness was gone; his eyes were alight
with triumph; the smile she loved was on his lips, and he had forgotten
those troubled, useless, mazy musings on the jetty. He took a quick step
towards her, holding out both his hands. She clasped them.

"Nothing?" he asked in a low tone. "Nothing, Maggie?"

She bowed her head for answer; it was the attitude of surrender, of
helplessness, and of trust, and it appealed to the softer feeling in him
which her resistance had smothered. He was strongly moved, and his face
was pale as he drew her to him and kissed her lips; but all he said was,

"Then the deuce take Tom Loring!"

It seemed to her enough. The light devil-may-care words surely covered a
pledge from him to her--something in return from him to her. At last,
surely he was hers, and her wishes his law. It was her moment; she would
ask of him now the uttermost wish of her heart--the wish that had
displaced all else--the passionate wish not to lose him--not, as it
were, to be emptied of him.

"And Omofaga?" she whispered.

His eyes looked past her, out into the dim twilight, into the broad
world--the world that she seemed to ask him to give for her, as she was
giving her world for him. He laughed again, but not as he had laughed
before. There was a note of wonder in his laugh now--of wonder that the
prayer seemed now not so utterly absurd--that he could imagine himself
doing even that--spoiling his heart of its darling ambition--for her.
Yet, even in that moment of her strongest sway, as her arms were about
him, he was swearing to himself that he would not.

She did not press for an answer. A glance into his distant eyes gave her
one, perhaps, for she sighed as though in pain. Hearing her, he bent his
look on her again. Though he might deny that last boon, he had given her
much. So she read; and, drawing herself to her full height, she released
one of her hands from his, and held it out to him. For a moment he
hesitated; then a slow smile breaking on his face, he bent and kissed
it, and she whispered over his bent head, half in triumph, half in
apology for bidding him bend his head even in love,

"I like pretending to be queen--even with you, Willie."

Her flattery, so sweet to him, because it was wrung from her all against
her will, and was for him alone of men, thrilled through him and he was
drawing her to him again when the merry chatter of a child struck on
their ears from the garden.

She shrank back.

"Hark!" she murmured. "They're coming."

"Yes," he said, with a frown. "I shall come to-morrow, Maggie."

"To-morrow? Every day?" said she.

"Well, then, every day. But to-morrow all day."

"Ah, yes, all day to-morrow."

"But I must go now."

"No, no, don't go," she said quickly. "Sit down; see, sit there. Don't
look as if you'd thought of going."

He did as she bade him, trying to assume an indifferent air.

She, too, sat down, her eyes fixed on the door. A strange look of pain
and shame spread over her face. She must bend to deceive her children,
to dread detection, to play little tricks and weave little devices
against the eyes of those for whom she had been an earthly
providence--the highest, most powerful, and best they knew. Willie
Ruston did not follow the thought that stamped its mark on her face
then, nor understand why, with a sudden gasp, she dashed her hand across
her eyes and turned to him with trembling lips, crying, in low tones,

"Ah, but I have you, Willie!"

Before he could answer her appeal, the voices were in the passage. Her
face grew calm, save for a slight frown on her brow. She shaped her lips
into a smile to meet the incomers. She shot a rapid glance of caution
and warning at him. The door was flung open, and the three children
rushed in, Madge at their head. Madge, seeing Willie Ruston, stopped
short, and her laughter died away. She turned and said,

"Marjory, here's Mr. Ruston."

None could mistake her tone for one of welcome.

Marjory Valentine came forward. She looked at neither of them, but sat
down near the table.

"Well, Madge," said Mrs. Dennison, "there's good news for you, isn't
there? Your friend's coming."

Madge, finding (as she thought) sympathy, came to her mother's knee.

"Yes, I'm glad," she said. "Are you glad, mother?"

"Oh, I don't mind," answered Mrs. Dennison, kissing her; but she could
not help one glance at Willie Ruston. Bitterly she repented it, for she
found Marjory Valentine following it with her open sorrowful eyes. She
rose abruptly, and Ruston rose also, and with brief good-nights--Madge
being kissed only on strong persuasion--took his leave. The children
flocked away to take off their hats, and Marjory was left alone with her
hostess.

The girl looked pale, weary, and sad. Mrs. Dennison was stirred to an
impulse of compassion. Walking up to where she sat, she bent down as
though to kiss her. Marjory looked up. There was a question--it seemed
to be a question--in her face. Mrs. Dennison flushed red from neck to
forehead, and then grew paler than the pallor she had pitied. The girl's
unspoken question seemed to echo hauntingly from every corner of the
little room, "Are your lips--clean?"




                              CHAPTER XVII.

                         A SOUND IN THE NIGHT.


Slow in forming, swift in acting; slow in the making, swift in the
working; slow to the summit, swift down the other slope; it is the way
of nature, and the way of the human mind. What seemed yesterday unborn
and impossible, is to-day incipient and a great way off, to-morrow
complete, present, and accomplished. After long labour a thing springs
forth full grown; to deny it, or refuse it, or fight against it, seems
now as vain as a few hours ago it was to hope for it, or to fear, or to
imagine, or conceive it. In like manner, the slow, crawling, upward
journey can be followed by every eye; its turns, its twists, its checks,
its zigzags may be recorded on a chart. Then is the brief pause--on the
summit--and the tottering incline towards the declivity. But how
describe what comes after? The dazzling rush that beats the eye, that in
its fury of advance, its paroxysm of speed, is void of halts or turns,
and, darting from point to point, covers and blurs the landscape till
there seems nothing but the moving thing; and that again, while the
watcher still tries vainly to catch its whirl, has sprung, and reached,
and ceased; and, save that there it was and here it is, he would not
know that its fierce stir had been.

Such a race runs passion to its goal, when the reins hang loose. Hours
may do what years have not done, and minutes sum more changes than long
days could stretch to hold. The world narrows till there would seem to
be nothing else existent in it--nothing of all that once held out the
promise (sure as it then claimed to be) of escape, of help, or warning.
The very promise is forgotten, the craving for its fulfilment dies away.
"Let me alone," is the only cry; and the appeal makes its own answer,
the entreaty its own concession.

Some thirty hours had passed since the last recorded scene, and Marjory
Valentine was still under Mrs. Dennison's roof. It had been hard to
stay, but the girl would not give up her self-imposed hopeless task.
Helpless she had proved, and hopeless she had become. The day had passed
with hardly a word spoken between her and her hostess. Mrs. Dennison had
been out the greater part of the time, and, when out, she had been with
Ruston. She had come in to dinner at half-past seven, and at nine had
gone to her room, pleading fatigue and a headache. Marjory had sat up a
little longer, with an unopened book on her knee. Then she also went to
bed, and tried vainly to sleep. She had left her bed now, and, wrapped
in a dressing-gown, sat in a low arm-chair near the window. It was a
dark and still night; a thick fog hung over the little garden; nothing
was to be heard save the gentle roll of a quiet sea, and the occasional
blast of a steam whistle. Marjory's watch had stopped, but she guessed
it to be somewhere in the small hours of the morning--one o'clock,
perhaps, or nearing two. There was an infinite weary time, then, before
the sun would shine again, and the oppression of the misty darkness be
lifted off. She hated the night--this night--it savoured not of rest to
her, but of death; for she was wrought to a nervous strain, and felt her
imaginings taking half-bodily shapes about her, so that she was fearful
of looking to the right hand or the left. Sleep was impossible; to try
to sleep like a surrender to the mysterious enemies round her. Time
seemed to stand still; she counted sixty once, to mark a minute's
flight, and the counting took an eternity. The house was utterly
noiseless, and she shivered at the silence. She would have given half
her life, she felt, for a ray of the sun; but half a life stretched
between her and the first break of morning. Sitting there, she heaped
terrors round her; the superstitions that hide their heads before
daytime mockery reared them now in victory and made a prey of her. The
struggle she had in her weakness entered on seemed less now with human
frailty than against the strong and evil purpose of some devil; in face
of which she was naught. How should she be? She had not, she told
herself in morbid upbraiding, even a pure motive in the fight; her
hatred of the sin had been less keen had she not once desired the love
of him that caused it, and when she arrested Maggie Dennison's kiss, she
shamed a rival in rebuking an unfaithful wife. Then she cried
rebelliously against her anguish. Why had this come on her, darkening
bright youth? Why was she compassed about with trouble? And
why--why--why did not the morning come?

The mist was thick and grey against the window. A fog-horn roared, and
the sea, regardless, repeated its even beat; behind the feeble
interruptions there sounded infinite silence. She hid her face in her
hands. Then she leapt up and flung the window open wide. The damp
fog-folds settled on her face, but she heard the sea more plainly, and
there were sounds in the air about her. It was not so terribly quiet.
She peered eagerly through the mist, but saw nothing save vague
tremulous shapes, vacant of identity. Still the world, the actual,
earthly, healthy world, was there--a refuge from imagination.

She stood looking; and, as she looked, one shape seemed to grow into a
nearer likeness of something definite. It was motionless; it differed
from the rest only in being darker and of rather sharper outline. It
must be a tree, she thought, but remembered no tree there; the garden
held only low-growing shrubs. A post? But the gate lay to the right, and
this stood on her left hand, hard by the door of the house. What then?
The terror came on her again, but she stood and looked, longing to find
some explanation for it--some meaning on which her mind could rest, and,
reassured, drive away its terrifying fancies. For the shape was large in
the mist, and she could not tell what it might mean. Was it human? On
her superstitious mood the thought flashed bright with sudden relief,
and she cried beseechingly,

"Who is it? Who is there?"

A human voice in answer would have been heaven to her, but no answer
came. With a stifled cry, she shut the window down, and stood a moment,
listening--eager, yet fearful, to hear. Hark! Yes, there was a sound!
What was it? It was a footstep on the gravel--a slow, uncertain,
wavering, intermittent step, as though of someone groping with
hesitating feet and doubtful resolution through the mist. She must know
what it was--who it was--what it meant. She started up again, laying
both hands on the window-sash. But then terror conquered curiosity;
gasping as if breath failed her and something still pursued, she ran
across the room and flung open the door. She must find someone--Maggie
or someone.

On the threshold she paused in amazement. The door of Mrs. Dennison's
room was open, and Maggie stood in the doorway, holding a candle, behind
which her face gleamed pale and her eyes shone. She was muffled in a
long white wrapper, and her dark hair fell over her shoulders. The
candle shook in her hand, but, on sight of Marjory, her lips smiled
beneath her deep shining eyes. Marjory ran to her crying,

"Is it you, Maggie?"

"Who should it be?" asked Mrs. Dennison, still smiling, so well as her
fast-beating breath allowed her. "Why aren't you in bed?"

The girl grasped her hand, and pushed her back into the room.

"Maggie, I----Hark! there it is again! There's something outside--there,
in the garden! If you open the window----"

As she spoke, Mrs. Dennison darted quick on silent naked feet to the
window, and stood by it; but she seemed rather to intercept approach to
it than to think of opening it. Indeed there was no need. The slow
uncertain step sounded again; there were five or six seeming footfalls,
and the women stood motionless, listening to them. Then there was
stillness outside, matching the hush within; till Maggie Dennison,
tearing the wrapper loose from her throat, said in low tones,

"I hear nothing outside;" and she put the candle on the table by her.
"You can see nothing for the fog," she added as she gazed through the
glass. Her tone was strangely full of relief.

"I opened the window," whispered Marjory, "and I saw--I thought I
saw--something. And then I heard--that. You heard it, Maggie?"

The girl was standing in the middle of the room, her eyes fixed on Mrs.
Dennison, who leant against the window-sash with a strained, alert,
watchful look on her face.

"I heard you open the window and call out something," she said. "That's
all I heard."

"But just now--just now as we stood here?"

Mrs. Dennison did not answer for a moment; her ear was almost against
the panes, and her face was like a runner's as he waits for the
starter's word. There was nothing but the gentle beat of the sea. Mrs.
Dennison pushed her hair back over her shoulders and sighed; her tense
frame relaxed, and the fixed smile on her lips seemed, in broadening, to
lose something of its rigidity.

"No, I didn't, you silly child," she said. "You're full of fancies,
Marjory."

The curl of her lip and the shrug of her shoulders won no attention.

"It went across the garden from the door--across towards the gate," said
Marjory, "towards the path down. I heard it. It came from near the door.
I heard it."

Mrs. Dennison shook her head. The girl sprang forward and again caught
her by the arm.

"You heard too?" she cried. "I know you heard!" and a challenge rang in
her voice.

"I didn't hear," she repeated impatiently, "but I daresay you did.
Perhaps it was a man--a thief, or somebody lost in the fog. Would you
like me to wake the footman? I can tell him to take a lantern and look
if anyone's in the garden."

Marjory took no notice of the offer.

"But if it was anyone, he'll have gone now," continued Maggie Dennison,
"your opening the window will have frightened him. You made such a
noise--you woke me up."

"Were you asleep?" came in quick question.

"Yes," answered Mrs. Dennison steadily, "I was asleep. Couldn't you
sleep?"

"Sleep? No, I couldn't sleep. I was afraid."

"You're as bad as the children," said Mrs. Dennison, laughing gently.
"Come, go back to bed. Shall I come and sit by you till it's light?"

The girl seemed not to hear; she drew nearer, searching Mrs. Dennison's
face with suspicious eyes. Maggie could not face her; she dropped her
glance to the floor and laughed nervously and fretfully. Suddenly
Marjory threw herself on the floor at her friend's feet.

"Maggie, come away from here," she beseeched. "Do come; do come away
directly. Maggie, dear, I love you so, and--and I was unkind last night.
Do come, darling! We'll go back together--back home," and she burst into
sobbing.

Maggie Dennison stood passive and motionless, her hands by her side. Her
lips quivered and she looked down at the girl kneeling at her feet.

"Won't you come?" moaned Marjory. "Oh, Maggie, there's still time!"

Mrs. Dennison knew what she meant. A strange smile came over her face.
Yes, there was time; in a sense there was time, for the uncertain
footfalls had not reached their goal--arrested by that cry from the
window, they had stopped--wavered--retreated--and were gone. Because a
girl had not slept, there was time. Yet what difference did it make that
there was still time--to-night? Since to-morrow was coming and must
come.

"Time!" she echoed in a whisper.

"For God's sake, come, Maggie! Come to-morrow--you and the children.
Come back with them to England! Maggie, I can't stay here!"

Mrs. Dennison put out her hands and took Marjory's.

"Get up," she said, almost roughly, and dragged the girl to her feet.
"You can go, Marjory; I--I suppose you're not happy here. You can go."

"And you?"

"I shan't go," said Maggie Dennison.

Marjory, standing now, shrank back from her.

"You won't go?" she whispered. "Why, what are you staying for?"

"You forget," said Mrs. Dennison coldly. "I'm waiting for my husband."

"Oh!" moaned Marjory, a world of misery and contempt in her voice.

At the tone Mrs. Dennison's face grew rigid, and, if it could be, paler
than before; she had been called "liar" to her face, and truly. It was
lost to-night her madness mourned--hoped for to-morrow that held her in
her place.

The fog was lifting outside; the darkness grew less dense; a distant,
dim, cold light began to reveal the day.

"See, it's morning," said Mrs. Dennison. "You needn't be afraid any
longer. Won't you go back to your own room, Marjory?"

Marjory nodded. She wore a helpless bewildered look, and she did not
speak. She started to cross the room, when Mrs. Dennison asked her,

"Do you mean to go this morning? I suppose the Seminghams will take you,
if you like. We can make some excuse if you like."

Marjory stood still, then she sank on a chair near her, and began to sob
quietly. Mrs. Dennison slowly walked to her, and stood by her. Then,
gently and timidly, she laid her hand on the girl's head.

"Don't cry," she said. "Why should you cry?"

Marjory clutched her hand, crying,

"Maggie, Maggie, don't, don't!"

Mrs. Dennison's eyes filled with tears. She let her hand lie passive
till the girl released it, and, looking up, said,

"I'm not going, Maggie. I shall stay. Don't send me away! Let me stay
till Mr. Dennison comes."

"What's the use? You're unhappy here."

"Can't I help you?" asked the girl, so low that it seemed as though she
were afraid to hear her own voice.

Mrs. Dennison's self-control suddenly gave way.

"Help!" she cried recklessly. "No, you can't help. Nobody can help. It's
too late for anyone to help now."

The girl raised her head with a start.

"Too late! Maggie, you mean----?"

"No, no, no," cried Mrs. Dennison, and then her eager cry died swiftly
away.

Why protest in horror? By no grace of hers was it that it was not too
late. The girl's eyes were on her, and she stammered,

"I mean nothing--nothing. Yes, you must go. I hate--no, no! Marjory,
don't push me away! Let me touch you! There's no reason I shouldn't
touch you. I mean, I love you, but--I can't have you here."

"Why not?" came from the girl in slow, strong tones.

A moment later, she sprang to her feet, her eyes full of new horror, as
the vague suspicion grew to a strange undoubting certainty.

"Who was it in the garden? Who was out there? Maggie, if I hadn't----?"

She could not end. On the last words her voice sank to a fearful
whisper; when she had uttered them--with their unfinished, yet plain and
naked, question--she hid her face in her hands, listening for the
answer.

A minute--two minutes--passed. There was no sound but Maggie Dennison's
quick breathings; once she started forward with her lips parted as if to
speak, and a look of defiance on her face; once too, entreaty, hope,
tenderness dawned for a moment. In anger or in sorrow, the truth was
hard on being uttered; but the impulse failed. She arrested the words on
her lips, and with an angry jerk of her head, said petulantly,

"Oh, you're a silly girl, and you make me silly too. There's nothing the
matter. I don't know who it was or what it was. Very likely it was
nothing. I heard nothing. It was all your imagination." Her voice grew
harder, colder, more restrained as she went on. "Don't think about what
I've said to-night--and don't chatter about it. You upset me with your
fancies. Marjory, it means nothing."

The last words were imperative in their insistence, but all the answer
Marjory made was to raise her head and ask,

"Am I to go?" while her eyes added, too plainly for Maggie Dennison not
to read them, "You know the meaning of that."

Under the entreaty and the challenge of her eyes, Mrs. Dennison could
not give the answer which it was her purpose to give--the answer which
would deny the mad hope that still filled her, the hope which still
cried that, though to-night was gone, there was to-morrow. It was the
answer she must make to all the world--which she must declare and study
to confirm in all her acts and bearing. But there--alone with the
girl--under the compelling influence of the reluctant confidence--that
impossibility of open falsehood--which the time and occasion seemed
strangely to build up between them--she could not give it plainly. She
dared not bid the girl stay, with that hope at her heart; she dared not
cast away the cloak by bidding her go.

"You must do as you like," she said at last. "I can't help you about
it."

Marjory caught at the narrow chance the answer left her; with returning
tenderness she stretched out her hands towards her friend, saying,

"Maggie, do tell me! I shall believe what you tell me."

Mrs. Dennison drew back from the contact of the outstretched hands.
Marjory rose, and for an instant they stood looking at one another. Then
Marjory turned, and walked slowly to the door. To her own room she went,
to fear and to hope, if hope she could.

Mrs. Dennison was left alone. The night was far gone, the morning coming
apace. Her lips moved, as she gazed from the window. Was it in
thanksgiving for the escape of the night, or in joy that the morrow was
already to-day? She could not tell; yes, she was glad--surely she was
glad? Yet, as at last she flung herself upon her bed, she murmured,
"He'll come early to-day," and then she sobbed in shame.




                             CHAPTER XVIII.

                    ON THE MATTER OF A RAILWAY.


Willie Ruston was half-dressed when the chamber-maid knocked at his
door. He opened it and took from her three or four letters. Laying them
on the table he finished his dressing--with him a quick process, devoid
of the pleasant lounging by which many men cheat its daily tiresomeness.
At last, when his coat was on, he walked two or three times up and down
the room, frowning, smiling for an instant, frowning long again. Then he
jerked his head impatiently as though he had had too much of his
thoughts, and, going to the table, looked at the addresses on his
letters. With a sudden access of eagerness he seized on one and tore it
open. It bore Carlin's handwriting, and he groaned to see that the four
sides were close-filled. Old Carlin was terribly verbose and roundabout
in his communications, and a bored look settled on Willie Ruston's face
as he read a wilderness of small details, skirmishes with unruly clerks,
iniquities of office-boys, lamentations on the apathy of the public, and
lastly, a conscientious account of the health of the writer's household.
With a sigh he turned the second page.

"By the way," wrote Carlin, "I have had a letter from Detchmore. He
draws back about the railway, and says the Government won't sanction
it."

Willie Ruston raced through the rest, muttering to himself as he read,
"Why the deuce didn't he wire? What an old fool it is!" and so forth.
Then he flung down the letter, put his hands deep in his pockets and
stood motionless for a few moments.

"I must go at once," he said aloud.

He stood thinking, and a rare expression stole over his face. It showed
a doubt, a hesitation, a faltering--the work and the mark of the day and
the night that were gone. He walked about again; he went to the window
and stared out, jangling the money in his pockets. For nearly five
minutes that expression was on his face. For nearly five minutes--and it
seemed no short time--he was torn by conflicting forces. For nearly five
minutes he wavered in his allegiance, and Omofaga had a rival that could
dispute its throne. Then his brow cleared and his lips shut tight again.
He had made up his mind; great as the thing was that held him where he
was, yet he must go, and the thing must wait. Wheeling round, he took up
the letter and, passing quickly through the door, went to young Sir
Walter's room, with the face of a man who knows grief and vexation but
has set wavering behind him.

It was an hour later when Adela Ferrars and the Seminghams sat down to
their coffee. A fourth plate was laid at the table, and Adela was in
very good spirits. Tom Loring had arrived; they had greeted him, and he
was upstairs making himself fit to be seen after a night-voyage; his
boat had lain three hours outside the harbour waiting for the fog to
lift. "I daresay," said Tom, "you heard our horn bellowing." But he was
here at last, and Adela was merrier than she had been in all her stay at
Dieppe. Semingham also was happy; it was a great relief to feel that
there was someone to whom responsibility properly, or at least more
properly, belonged, and an end, therefore, to all unjustifiable attempts
to saddle mere onlookers with it. And Lady Semingham perceived that her
companions were in more genial mood than lately had been their wont, and
expanded in the warmer air. When Tom came down nothing could exceed the
_empressement_ of his welcome.

The sun had scattered the last remnants of fog, and, on Semingham's
proposal, the party passed from the table to a seat in the hotel garden,
whence they could look at the sea. Here they became rather more silent;
for Adela began to feel that the hour of explanation was approaching,
and grew surer and surer that to her would be left the task. She
believed that Tom was tactful enough to spare her most of it, but
something she must say--and to say anything was terribly difficult. Lord
Semingham was treating the visit as though there were nothing behind;
and his wife had no inkling that there was anything behind. The wife's
genius for not observing was matched by the husband's wonderful power of
ignoring; and if Adela had allowed herself to translate into words the
exasperated promptings of her quick temper, she would have declared a
desire to box the ears of both of them. It would have been vulgar, but
entirely satisfactory.

At last Tom, with carefully-prepared nonchalance, asked,

"Oh, and how is Mrs. Dennison?"

Bessie Semingham assumed the question to herself.

"She's very well, thank you, Mr. Loring. Dieppe has done her a world of
good."

Adela pursed her lips together. Semingham, catching her eye, smothered a
nascent smile. Tom frowned slightly, and, leaning forward, clasped his
hands between his knees. He was guilty of wishing that Bessie Semingham
had more pressing avocations that morning.

"You see," she chirruped, "Marjory's with her, and the children dote on
Marjory, and she's got Mr. Ruston and Walter to wait on her--you know
Maggie always likes somebody in her train. Well, Alfred, why shouldn't I
say that? I like to have someone myself."

"I didn't speak," protested Semingham.

"No, but you looked funny. I always say about Maggie, Mr. Loring,
that----"

All three were listening in some embarrassment; out of the mouths of
babes come sometimes alarming things.

"That without any apparent trouble she can make her clothes look better
than anybody I know."

Lord Semingham laughed; even Adela and Tom smiled.

"What a blessed irrelevance you have, my dear," said Semingham, stroking
his wife's small hand.

Lady Semingham smiled delightedly and blushed prettily. She enjoyed
Alfred's praise. He was so _difficile_ as a rule. The exact point of the
word "irrelevance" she did not stay to consider; she had evidently said
something that pleased him. A moment later she rose with a smile,
crying,

"Why, Mr. Ruston, how good of you to come round so early!"

Willie Ruston shook hands with her in hasty politeness. A nod to
Semingham, a lift of the hat to Adela, left him face to face with Tom
Loring, who got up slowly.

"Ah, Loring, how are you?" said Willie holding out his hand. "Young Val
told me you were to arrive to-day. How did you get across? Uncommon
foggy, wasn't it?"

By this time he had taken Tom's hand and shaken it, Tom being purely
passive.

"By the way, you're all wrong about the water, you know," he continued,
in sudden remembrance. "There's enough water to supply Manchester within
ten miles of Fort Imperial. What? Why, man, I'll show you the report
when we get back to town; good water, too. I had it analysed, and--well,
it's all right; but I haven't time to talk about it now. The fact is,
Semingham, I came round to tell you that I'm off."

"Off?" exclaimed Semingham, desperately fumbling for his eyeglass.

Adela clasped her hands, and her eyes sparkled. Tom scrutinised Willie
Ruston with attentive eyes.

"Yes; to-day--in an hour; boat goes at 11:30. I've had a letter from old
Carlin. Things aren't going well. That ass Detch----By Jove, though, I
forgot you, Loring! I don't want to give you materials for another of
those articles."

His rapidity, his bustle, his good humour were all amazing.

Tom glanced in bewilderment at Adela. Adela coloured deeply. She felt
that she had no adequate reason to give for having summoned Tom Loring
to Dieppe, unless (she brightened as the thought struck her) Tom had
frightened Ruston away.

Willie seized Semingham's arm, and began to walk him (the activity
seemed all on Willie's part) quickly up and down the garden. He held
Carlin's letter in his hand, and he talked eagerly and fast, beating the
letter with his fist now and again. Bessie Semingham sat down with an
amiable smile. Adela and Tom were close together. Adela lifted her eyes
to Tom's in question.

"What?" he asked.

"Do you think it's true?" she whispered.

"He's the finest actor alive if it isn't," said Tom, watching the beats
of Ruston's fist.

"Then thank heaven! But I feel so foolish."

"Hush! here they come," said Tom.

There was no time for more.

"Tom, there's riches in it for you if we told you," laughed Semingham;
"but Ruston's going to put it all right."

Tom gave a not very easy laugh.

"Fancy old Carlin not wiring!" exclaimed Willie Ruston.

"Shall I sell?" asked Adela, trying to be frivolous.

"Hold for your life, Miss Ferrars," said Willie; and going up to Bessie
Semingham he held out his hand.

"What, are you really off? It's too bad of you, Mr. Ruston! Not that
I've seen much of you. Maggie has quite monopolised you."

Adela and Tom looked at the ground. Semingham turned his back; his smile
would not be smothered.

"Of course you're going to say good-bye to her?" pursued Lady Semingham.

Tom looked up, and Adela followed his example. They were rewarded--if it
were a reward--by seeing a slight frown--the first shadow since he had
been with them--on Ruston's brow. But he answered briskly, with a glance
at his watch,

"I can't manage it. I should miss the boat. I must write her a line."

"Oh, she'll never forgive you," cried Lady Semingham.

"Oh, yes, she will," he laughed. "It's for Omofaga, you know. Good-bye.
Good-bye. I'm awfully sorry to go. Good-bye."

He was gone. It was difficult to realise at first. His presence, the
fact of him, had filled so large a space; it had been the feature of the
place from the day he had joined them. It had been their interest and
their incubus.

For a moment the three stood staring at one another; then Semingham,
with a curious laugh, turned on his heel and went into the house. His
wife unfolded yesterday's _Morning Post_ and began to read.

"Come for a stroll," said Tom Loring to Adela.

She accompanied him in silence, and they walked a hundred yards or more
before she spoke.

"What a blessing!" she said then. "I wonder if your coming sent him
away?"

"No, it was genuine," declared Tom, with conviction.

"Then I was very wrong, or he's a most extraordinary man. I can't talk
to you about it, Mr. Loring, but you told me I might send. And I did
think it--desirable--when I wrote. I did, indeed. I hope you're not very
much annoyed?"

"Annoyed! No; I was delighted to come. And I am still more delighted
that it looks as if I wasn't wanted."

"Oh, you're wanted, anyhow," said Adela.

She was very happy in his coming, and could not help showing it a
little. Fortunately, it was tolerably certain (as she felt sometimes,
intolerably certain) that Tom Loring would not notice anything. He never
seemed to consider it possible that people might be particularly glad to
see him.

"And you can stay, can't you?" she added.

"Oh, yes; I can stay a bit. I should like to. What made you send?"

"You know. I can't possibly describe it."

"Did Semingham notice it too?"

"Yes, he did, Mr. Loring. I distrust that man--Mr. Ruston I
mean--utterly. And Maggie----"

"She's wrapped up in him?"

"Terribly. I tried to think it was his wretched Omofaga; but it's not;
it's him."

"Well, he's disposed of."

"Yes, indeed," she sighed, in complacent ignorance.

"I must go and see her, you know," said Tom, wrinkling his brow.

Adela laughed.

"What'll she say to me?" asked Tom anxiously.

"Oh, she'll be very pleasant."

"I shan't," said Tom with sudden decision.

Adela looked at him curiously.

"You mean to--to give her 'a bit of your mind?'"

"Well, yes," he answered, smiling. "I think so; don't you?"

"I should like to, if I dared."

"Why, you dare anything!" exclaimed Tom.

"Oh, no, I don't. I splash about a good deal, but I am a coward,
really."

They relapsed into silence. Presently Tom began,

"It's been awfully dull in town; nobody to speak to, except Mrs.
Cormack."

"Mrs. Cormack!" cried Adela. "I thought you hated her?"

"Well, I've thought a little better of her lately."

"To think of your making friends with Mrs. Cormack!"

"I haven't made friends with her. She's not such a bad woman as you'd
think, though."

"I think she's horrible," said Adela.

Tom gave it up.

"There was no one else," he pleaded.

"Well," retorted Adela, "when there is anyone else, you never come near
them."

The grammar was confused, but Adela could not improve it, without being
landed in unbearable plainness of speech.

"Don't I?" he asked. "Why, I come and see you."

"Oh, for twenty minutes once a month; just to keep the acquaintance
open, I suppose. It's like shutting all the gates on Ascension Day
(isn't it Ascension Day?), only the other way round, you know."

"You so often quarrel with me," said Tom.

"What nonsense!" said Adela. "Anyhow, I won't quarrel here."

Tom glanced at her. She was looking bright and happy and young. He liked
her even better here in Dieppe than in a London drawing-room. Her
conversation was not so elaborate, but it was more spontaneous and, to
his mind, pleasanter. Moreover, the sea air had put colour in her cheeks
and painted her complexion afresh. The thought strayed through Tom's
mind that she was looking quite handsome. It was the one good thing that
he did not always think about her. He went on studying her till she
suddenly turned and caught him.

"Well," she asked, with a laugh and a blush, "do I wear well?"

"You always talk as if you were seventy," said Tom reprovingly.

Adela laughed merrily. The going of Ruston and the coming of Tom were
almost too much good-fortune for one day. And Tom had come in a pleasant
mood.

"You don't really like Mrs. Cormack, do you?" she asked. "She hates me,
you know."

"Oh, if I have to choose between you----" said Tom, and stopped.

"You stop at the critical moment."

"Well, Mrs. Cormack isn't here," said Tom.

"So I shall do to pass the time?"

"Yes," he laughed; and then they both laughed.

But suddenly Adela's laugh ceased, and she jumped up.

"There's Marjory Valentine!" she exclaimed.

"What! Where?" asked Tom, rising.

"No, stay where you are, I want to speak to her. I'll come back," and,
leaving Tom, she sped after Marjory, calling her name.

Marjory looked round and hastened to meet her. She was pale and her eyes
heavy for trouble and want of sleep.

"Oh, Adela, I'm so glad to find you! I was going to look for you at the
hotel. I must talk to you."

"You shall," said Adela, taking her arm and smiling again.

She did not notice Marjory's looks; she was full of her own tidings.

"I want to ask you whether you think Lady Semingham----" began Marjory,
growing red, and in great embarrassment.

"Oh, but hear my news first," cried Adela; "Marjory, he's gone!"

"Who?"

"Why, that man Mr. Ruston."

"Gone?" echoed Marjory in amazement.

To her it seemed incredible that he should be gone--strange perhaps to
Adela, but to her incredible.

"Yes, this morning. He got a letter--something about his Company--and he
was off on the spot. And Tom--Mr. Loring (he's come, you know),
thinks--that that really was his reason, you know."

Marjory listened with wide-open eyes.

"Oh, Adela!" she said at last with a sort of shudder.

She could have believed it of no other man; she could hardly believe it
of one who now seemed to her hardly a man.

"Isn't it splendid? And he went off without seeing--without going up to
the cliff at all. I never was so delighted in my life."

Marjory was silent. No delight showed on her face; the time for that was
gone. She did not understand, and she was thinking of the night's
experience and wondering if Maggie Dennison had known that he was going.
No, she could not have known.

"But what did you want with me, or with Bessie?" asked Adela.

Marjory hesitated. The departure of Willie Ruston made a difference. She
prayed that it meant an utter difference. There was a chance; and while
there was a chance her place was in the villa on the cliff. His going
rekindled the spark of hope that almost had died in the last terrible
night.

"I think," she said slowly, "that I'll go straight back."

"And tell Maggie?" asked Adela with excited eyes.

"If she doesn't know."

Adela said nothing; the subject was too perilous. She even regretted
having said so much; but she pressed her friend's arm approvingly.

"It doesn't matter about Lady Semingham just now," said Marjory in an
absent sort of tone. "It will do later."

"You're not looking well," remarked Adela, who had at last looked at
her.

"I had a bad night."

"And how's Maggie?"

The girl paused a moment.

"I haven't seen her this morning. She sent word that she would breakfast
in bed. I'll just run up now, Adela."

She walked off rapidly. Adela watched her, feeling uneasy about her.
There was a strange constraint about her manner--a hint of something
suppressed--and it was easy to see that she was nervous and unhappy. But
Adela, making lighter of her old fears in her new-won comfort, saw only
in Marjory a grief that is very sad to bear, a sorrow that comes where
love--or what is nearly love--meets with indifference.

"She's still thinking about that creature!" said Adela to herself in
scorn and in pity. She had quite made up her mind about Willie Ruston
now. "I'm awfully sorry for her." Adela, in fact, felt very sympathetic.
For the same thing might well happen with love that rested on a worthier
object than "that creature, Willie Ruston!"

Meanwhile the creature--could he himself at the moment have quarrelled
with the word?--was carried over the waves, till the cliff and the house
on it dipped and died away. The excitement of the message and the start
was over; the duty that had been strong enough to take him away could
not yet be done. A space lay bare--exposed to the thoughts that fastened
on it. Who could have escaped their assault? Not even Willie Ruston was
proof; and his fellow-voyagers wondered at the man with the frowning
brows and fretful restless eyes. It had not been easy to do, or pleasant
to see done, this last sacrifice to the god of his life. Yet it had been
done, with hardly a hesitation. He paced the deck, saying to himself,
"She'll understand." Would any woman? If any, then, without doubt, she
was the woman. "Oh, she'll understand," he muttered petulantly, angry
with himself because he would not be convinced. Once, in despair, he
tried to tell himself that this end to it was what people would call
ordered for the best--that it was an escape for him--still more for her.
But his strong, self-penetrating sense pushed the plea aside--in him it
was hypocrisy, the merest conventionality. He had not even the
half-stifled thanksgiving for respite from a doom still longed for,
which had struggled for utterance in Maggie's sobs. Yet he had something
that might pass for it--a feeling that made even him start in the
knowledge of its degradation. By fate, or accident, or mischance--call
it what he might--there was nothing irrevocable yet. He could draw back
still. Not thanksgiving for sin averted, but a shamefaced sense of an
enforced safety made its way into his mind--till it was thrust aside by
anger at the check that had baffled him, and by the longing that was
still upon him.

Well, anyhow--for good or evil--willing or unwilling--he was away. And
she was alone in the little house on the cliff. His face softened; he
ceased to think of himself for a moment; he thought of her, as she would
look when he did not come--when he was false to a tryst never made in
words, but surely the strongest that had ever bound a man. He clenched
his fists as he stood looking from the stern of the boat, muttering
again his old plea, "She'll understand!"

Was there not the railway?




                              CHAPTER XIX.

                           PAST PRAYING FOR.


Mrs. Dennison needed not Marjory to tell her. She had received Willie
Ruston's note just as she was about to leave her bedroom. It was
scribbled in pencil on half a sheet of notepaper.

    "Am called back to England--something wrong about our railway.
    Very sorry I can't come and say good-bye. I shall run back if I
    can, but I'm afraid I may be kept in England. Will you write?

                                                      "W. R. R."

She read it, and stood as if changed to stone. "Something wrong about
our railway!" Surely an all-sufficient reason; the writer had no doubt
of that. He might be kept in England; that meant he would be, and the
writer seemed to see nothing strange in the fact that he could be. She
did not doubt the truth of what the note said. A man lying would have
piled Pelion on Ossa, reason on reason, excuse on excuse, protestation
on protestation. Besides Willie Ruston did not lie. It was just the
truth, the all-sufficient truth. There was something wrong with the
railway, so he left her. He would lose a day if he missed the boat, so
he left her without a word of farewell. The railway must not suffer for
his taking holiday; her suffering was all his holiday should make.

Slowly she tore the note into the smallest of fragments, and the
fragments fell at her feet. And his passionate words were still in her
ears, his kisses still burnt on her cheek. This was the man whom to sway
had been her darling ambition, whom to love was her great sin, whom to
know, as in this moment she seemed to know him, her bitter punishment.
In her heart she cried to heaven, "Enough, enough!"

The note was his--his to its last line, its last word, its last silence.
The man stood there, self-epitomised, callous and careless, unmerciful,
unbending, unturning; vowed to his quest, recking of naught else.
But--she clung to this, the last plank in her shipwreck--great--one of
the few for whom the general must make stepping-stones. She thought she
had been one of the few; that torn note told her error. Still, she had
held out her hands to ruin for no common clay's sake. But it was too
hard--too hard--too hard.

"Will you write?" Was he tender there? Her bitterness would not grant
him even that. He did not want her to slip away. The smallest addition
will make the greatest realm greater, and its loss sully the king's
majesty. So she must write, as she must think and dream--and remember.

Perhaps he might choose to come again--some day--and she was to be
ready!

She went downstairs. In the hall she met her children, and they said
something to her; they talked and chattered to her, and, with the
surface of her mind, she understood; and she listened and answered and
smiled. And all that they had said and she had said went away; and she
found them gone, and herself alone. Then she passed to the sitting-room,
where was Marjory Valentine, breathless from mounting the path too
quickly; and at sight of Marjory's face, she said,

"I've heard from Mr. Ruston. He has been called away," forestalling
Marjory's trembling words.

Then she sat down, and there was a long silence. She was conscious of
Marjory there, but the girl did not speak, and presently the impression
of her, which was very faint, faded altogether away, and Maggie Dennison
seemed to herself alone again--thinking, dreaming, and remembering, as
she must now think, dream, and remember--remembering the day that was
gone, thinking of what this day should have been.

She sat for an hour, still and idle, looking out across the sea, and
Marjory sat motionless behind, gazing at her with despair in her eyes.
At last the girl could bear it no longer. It was unnatural, unearthly,
to sit there like that; it was as though, by an impossibility, a dead
soul were clothed with a living breathing body. Marjory rose and came
close, and called,

"Maggie, Maggie!"

Her voice was clear and louder than her ordinary tones; she spoke as if
trying to force some one to hear.

Maggie Dennison started, looked round, and passed her hand rapidly
across her brow.

"Maggie, I--I've not done anything about going."

"Going?" echoed Maggie Dennison. But her mind was clearing now; her
brain had been stunned, not killed, and her will drove it to wakefulness
and work again. "Going? Oh, I hope not."

"You know, last night----" began Marjory, timidly, flushing, keeping
behind Mrs. Dennison's chair. "Last night we--we talked about it, but I
thought perhaps now----"

"Oh," interrupted Mrs. Dennison, "never mind last night. For goodness'
sake, forget last night. I think we were both mad last night."

Marjory made no answer; and Mrs. Dennison, her hand having swept her
brow once again, turned to her with awakened and alert eyes.

"You upset me--and then I upset you. And we both behaved like hysterical
creatures. If I told you to go, I was silly; and if you said you wanted
to go, you were silly too, Marjory. Of course, you must stop; and do
forget that--nonsense--last night."

Her tone was eager and petulant, the colour was returning to her cheeks;
she looked alive again.

Marjory leant an arm on the back of the chair, looking down into Maggie
Dennison's face.

"I will stay," she said softly, ignoring everything else, and then she
swiftly stooped and kissed Maggie's cheek.

Mrs. Dennison shivered and smiled, and, detaining the girl's head, most
graciously returned her caress. Mrs. Dennison was forgiving everything;
by forgiveness it might be that she could buy of Marjory forgetfulness.

There was a ring at the door. Marjory looked through the window.

"It's Mr. Loring," she said in a whisper.

Maggie Dennison smiled--graciously again.

"It's very kind of him to come so soon," said she.

"Shall I go?"

"Go? No, child--unless you want to. You know him too. And we've no
secrets, Tom Loring and I."

Tom Loring had mounted the hill very slowly. The giving of that "piece
of his mind" seemed not altogether easy. He might paint poor Harry's
forlorn state; Mrs. Dennison would be politely concerned and politely
sceptical about it. He might tell her again--as he had told her
before--that Willie Ruston was a knave and a villain, and she might
laugh or be angry, as her mood was; but she would not believe. Or he
might upbraid her for folly or for worse; and this was what he wished to
do. Would she listen? Probably--with a smile on her lips and mocking
little compliments on his friendly zeal and fatherly anxiety. Or she
might flash out on him, and call his charge an insult, and drive him
away; and a word from her would turn poor old Harry into his enemy.
Decidedly his task was no easy one.

It was a coward's joy that he felt when he found a third person there;
but he felt it from the bottom of his heart. Divine delay! Gracious
impossibility! How often men adore them! Tom Loring gave thanks, praying
silently that Marjory would not withdraw, shook hands as though his were
the most ordinary morning call, and began to discuss the scenery of
Dieppe, and--as became a newcomer--the incidents of his voyage.

"And while you were all peacefully in your beds, we were groping about
outside in that abominable fog," said he.

"How you must have envied us!" smiled Mrs. Dennison, and Marjory found
herself smiling in emulous hypocrisy. But her smile was very
unsuccessful, and it was well that Tom Loring's eyes were on his
hostess.

Then Mrs. Dennison began to talk about Willie Ruston and her own great
interest in him, and in the Omofaga Company. She was very good-humoured
to Tom Loring, but she did not fail to remind him how unreasonable he
had been--was still, wasn't he? The perfection of her manner frightened
Marjory and repelled her. Yet it would have seemed an effort of bravery,
had it been done with visible struggling. But it betrayed no effort, and
therefore made no show of bravery.

"So now," said Maggie Dennison, "since I haven't got Mr. Ruston to
exchange sympathy with, I must exchange hostilities with you. It will
still be about Omofaga--that's one thing."

Tom had definitely decided to put off his lecture. The old manner he had
known and mocked and admired--the "these-are-the-orders" manner--was too
strong for him. He believed he was still fond of her. He knew that he
wondered at her still. Could it be true what they told him--that she was
as a child in the hands of Willie Ruston? He hated to think that,
because it must mean that Willie Ruston was--well, not quite an ordinary
person--a conclusion Tom loathed to accept.

"And you're going to stay some time with the Seminghams? That'll be very
pleasant. And Adela will like to have you so much. Oh, you can convert
her! She's a shareholder. And you must have a talk to the old Baron.
You've heard of him? But then he believes in Mr. Ruston, as I do, so
you'll quarrel with him."

"Perhaps I shall convert him," suggested Tom.

"Oh, no, we thorough believers are past praying for; aren't we,
Marjory?"

Marjory started.

"Past praying for?" she echoed.

Her thoughts had strayed from the conversation--back to what she had
been bidden to forget; and she spoke not as one who speaks a trivial
phrase.

For an instant a gleam of something--anger or fright--shot from Maggie
Dennison's eyes. The next, she was playfully, distantly, delicately
chaffing Tom about the meaning of his sudden arrival.

"Of course _not_----" she began.

And Tom, interrupting, stopped the "Adela."

"And you stay here too?" he asked, to turn the conversation.

"Why, of course," smiled Mrs. Dennison. "After being here all this time,
it would look rather funny if I ran away just when Harry's coming. I
think he really would have a right to be aggrieved then." She paused,
and added more seriously, "Oh, yes, I shall wait here for Harry."

Then Tom Loring rose and took his leave. Mrs. Dennison entrusted him
with an invitation to the whole of the Seminghams' party to luncheon
next day ("if they don't mind squeezing into our little room," she gaily
added), and walked with him to the top of the path, waving her hand to
him in friendly farewell as he began to descend. And, after he was gone,
she stood for a while looking out to sea. Then she turned. Marjory was
in the window and saw her face as she turned. In a moment Maggie
Dennison saw her looking, and smiled brightly. But the one short instant
had been enough. The feelings first numbed, then smothered, had in that
second sprung to life, and Marjory shrank back with a little
inarticulate cry of pain and horror. Almost as she uttered it, Mrs.
Dennison was by her side.

"We'll go out this afternoon," she said. "I think I shall lie down for
an hour. We managed to rob ourselves of a good deal of sleep last night.
You'd better do the same." She paused, and then she added, "You're a
good child, Marjory. You're very kind to me."

There was a quiver in her voice, but it was only that, and it was
Marjory, not she, who burst into sobs.

"Hush, hush," whispered Maggie Dennison. "Hush, dear. Don't do that. Why
should you do that?" and she stroked the girl's hot cheek, wet with
tears. "I'm very tired, Marjory," she went on. "Do you think you can dry
your eyes--your silly eyes--and help me upstairs? I--I can hardly
stand," and, as she spoke, she swayed and caught at the curtain by her,
and held herself up by it. "No, I can go alone!" she exclaimed almost
fiercely. "Leave me alone, Marjory, I can walk. I can walk perfectly;"
and she walked steadily across the room, and Marjory heard her
unwavering step mounting the stairs to her bedroom.

But Marjory did not see her enter her room, stop for a moment over the
scraps of torn paper, still lying on the floor, stoop and gather them
one by one, then put them in an envelope, and the envelope in her purse,
and then throw herself on the bed in an agony of dumb pain, with the
look on her face that had come for a moment in the garden and came now,
fearless of being driven away, lined strong and deep, as though graven
with some sharp tool.




                              CHAPTER XX.

                       THE BARON'S CONTRIBUTION.


It may be that the Baron thought he had sucked the orange of life very
dry--at least, when the cold winds and the fog had done their work, he
accepted without passionate disinclination the hint that he must soon
take his lips from the fruit. He went to bed and made a codicil to his
will, having it executed and witnessed with every requisite formality.
Then he announced to Lord Semingham, who came to see him, that,
according to his doctor's opinion and his own, he might manage to
breathe a week longer; and Semingham, looking upon him, fancied, without
saying, that the opinion was a sanguine one. This happened five days
before Harry Dennison's arrival at Dieppe.

"I am very fortunate," said the Baron, "to have found such kind friends
for the last stage;" and he looked from Lady Semingham's flowers to
Adela's grapes. "I could have bought them, of course," he added. "I've
always been able to buy--everything."

The old man smiled as he spoke, and Semingham smiled also.

"This," continued the Baron, "is the third time I have been laid up like
this."

"There's luck in odd numbers," observed Semingham.

"But which would be luck?" asked the Baron.

"Ah, there you gravel me," admitted Semingham.

"I came here against orders, because I must needs poke my old nose into
this concern of yours----"

"Not of mine."

"Of yours and others. Well, I poked it in--and the frost has caught the
end of it."

"I don't take any particular pleasure in the concern myself," said
Semingham, "and I wish you'd kept your nose out, and yourself in a more
balmy climate."

"My dear Lord, the market is rising."

"I know," smiled Semingham. "Tom Loring can't make out who the fools are
who are buying. He said so this morning."

The Baron began to laugh, but a cough choked his mirth.

"He's an honest and an able man, your Loring; but he doesn't see clear
in everything. I've been buying, myself."

"Oh, you have?"

"Yes, and someone has been selling--selling largely--or the price would
have been driven higher. It is you, perhaps, my friend?"

"Not a share. I have the vices of an aristocracy. I am stubborn."

"Who, then?"

"It might be--Dennison."

The Baron nodded.

"But what did you want with 'em, Baron? Will they pay?"

"Oh, I doubt that. But I wanted them. Why should Dennison sell?"

"I suppose he doubts, like you."

"Perhaps it is that."

"Perhaps," said Semingham.

In the course of the next three days they had many conversations; the
talks did the Baron no good nor, as his doctor significantly said, any
harm; and when he could not talk, Semingham sat by him and told stories.
He spoke too, frequently, of Willie Ruston, and of the Company--that
interested the Baron. And at last, on the third day, they began to speak
of Maggie Dennison; but neither of them connected the two names in talk.
Indeed Semingham, according to his custom, had rushed at the possibility
of ignoring such connection. Ruston's disappearance had shown him a way;
and he embraced the happy chance. He was always ready to think that any
"fuss" was a mistake; and, as he told the Baron, Mrs. Dennison had been
in great spirits lately, cheered up, it seemed, by the prospect of her
husband's immediate arrival. The Baron smiled to hear him; then he
asked,

"Do you think she would come to see me?"

Semingham promised to ask her; and, although the Baron was fit to see
nobody the next day--for he had moved swiftly towards his journey's end
in those twenty-four hours--yet Mrs. Dennison came and was admitted;
and, at sight of the Baron, who lay yellow and gasping, forgot both her
acting and, for an instant, the reality which it hid.

"Oh!" she cried before she could stop herself, "how ill you look! Let me
make you comfortable!"

The Baron did not deny her. He had something to say to her.

"When does your husband come?" he asked.

"To-morrow," said she briefly.

She did all she could for his comfort, and then sat down by his bedside.
He had an interval of some freedom from oppression and his mind was
clear and concentrated.

"I want to tell you," he began, "something that I have done." He paused,
and added a question, "Ruston does not come back to Dieppe, I suppose?"

"I think not. He is detained on business," she answered, "and he will be
more tied when my husband leaves."

"Your husband will not long be concerned in the Omofaga," said he.

She started; the Baron told her what he had told Semingham.

"He will soon resign his place on the Board, you will see," he ended.

She sat silent.

"He will have nothing more to do with it, you will see;" and, turning to
her, he asked with a sudden spurt of vigour, "Do you know why?"

"How should I?" she answered steadily.

"And I--I have done my part too. I have left him some money (she knew
that the Baron did not mean her husband) and all the shares I held."

"You've done that?" she cried, with a sudden light in her eyes.

"You do not want to know why?"

"Oh, I know you admired him. You told me so."

"Yes, that in part. I did admire him. He was what I have never been. I
wish he was here now. I should like to look at that face of his before I
die. But it was not for his sake that I left him the money. Why, he
could get it without me if he needed it! You don't ask me why?"

In his excitement he had painfully pulled himself higher up on his
pillows, and his head was on the level with hers now. He looked right
into her eyes. She was very pale, but calm and self-controlled.

"I don't know," she said. "Why have you?"

"It will make him independent of your husband," said the Baron.

Mrs. Dennison dropped her eyes and raised them again in a swift,
questioning glance.

"Yes, and of you. He need not look to you now."

He paused and added, slowly, punctuating every word,

"You will not be necessary to him now."

Mrs. Dennison met his gaze full and straight; the Baron stretched out
his hand.

"Ah, forgive me!" he exclaimed.

"There is nothing to forgive," said she.

"I saw; I knew; I have felt it. Now he will go away; he will not lean on
you now. I have set him where he can stand alone."

A smile, half scornful and half sad, came on her face.

"You hate me," said the Baron. "But I am right."

"I was--we were never necessary to him," said she. "Ah, Baron, this is
no news you give me. I know him better than that."

He raised himself higher still, panting as he rested on his elbow. His
head craned forward towards her as he whispered,

"I'm a dying man. You can tell me."

"If you were a dead man----" she burst out passionately. Then she
suddenly recovered herself.

"My dear Baron," she went on, "I'm very glad you've done this for Mr.
Ruston."

He sank down on his pillows with a weary sigh.

"Let him alone, let him alone," he moaned. "You thought yourself
strong."

"I suppose you mean kindly," she said, speaking very coldly. "Indeed,
that you should think of me at all just now shows it. But, Baron, you
are disquieting yourself without cause."

"I'm an old man, and a sick man," he pleaded, "and you, my dear----"

"Ah, suppose I have been--whatever you like--indiscreet? Well----?"

She paused, for he made a feebly impatient gesture. Mrs. Dennison kept
silence for a moment; then in a low tone she said,

"Baron, why do you speak to a woman about such things, unless you want
her to lie to you?"

The Baron, after a moment, gave his answer, that was no answer.

"He is gone," he said.

"Yes, he is gone--to look after his railway."

"It is finished then?" he half asked, half implored, and just caught her
low-toned reply.

"Finished? Who for?" Then she suddenly raised her voice, crying, "What
is it to you? Why can't I be let alone? How dare you make me talk about
it?"

"I have done," said he, and, laying his thin yellow hand in hers, he
went on, "If you meet him again--and I think you will--tell him that I
longed to see him, as a man who is dying longs for his son. He would be
a breath of life to me in this room, where everything seems dead. He is
full of life--full as a tiger. And you can tell him----" He stopped a
moment and smiled. "You can tell him why I was a buyer of Omofagas. What
will he say?"

"What will he say?" she echoed, with wide-opened eyes, that watched the
old man's slow-moving lips.

"Will he weep?" asked the Baron.

"In God's name, don't!" she stammered.

"He will say, 'Behold, the Baron von Geltschmidt was a good man--he was
of use in the world--may he sleep in peace!' And now--how goes the
railway?"

The old man lay silent, with a grim smile on his face. The woman sat by,
with lips set tight in an agony of repression. At last she spoke.

"If I'd known you were going to tell me this, I wouldn't have come."

"It's hard, hard, hard, but----"

"Oh, not that. But--I knew it."

She rose to her feet.

"Good-bye," said the Baron. "I shan't see you again. God make it light
for you, my dear."

She would not seem to hear him. She smoothed his pillows and his scanty
straggling hair; then she kissed his forehead.

"Good-bye," she said. "I will tell Willie when I see him. I shall see
him soon."

The old man moaned softly and miserably.

"It would be better if you lay here," he said.

"Yes, I suppose so," she answered, almost listlessly. "Good-bye."

Suddenly he detained her, catching her hand.

"Do you believe in people meeting again anywhere?" he asked.

"Oh, I suppose so. No, I don't know, I'm sure."

"They've been telling me to have a priest. I call myself a Catholic, you
know. What can I say to a priest? I have done nothing but make money. If
that is a sin, it's too simple to need confession, and I've done too
much of it for absolution. How can I talk to a priest? I shall have no
priest."

She did not speak, but let him hold her hand.

"If," he went on, with a little smile, "I'm asked anywhere what I've
done, I must say, 'I've made money.' That's all I shall have to say."

She stooped low over him and whispered,

"You can say one more thing, Baron--one little thing. You once tried to
save a woman," and she kissed him again and was gone.

Outside the house, she found Semingham waiting for her.

"Oh, I say, Mrs. Dennison," he cried, "Harry's come. He got away a day
earlier than he expected. I met him driving up towards your house."

For just a moment she stood aghast. It came upon her with a shock;
between a respite of a day and the actual terrible now, there had seemed
a gulf.

"Is he there--at the house--now?" she asked.

Semingham nodded.

"Will you walk up with me?" she asked eagerly. "I must go directly, you
know. He'll be so sorry not to find me there. Do you mind coming? I'm
tired."

He offered his arm, and she almost clutched at it, but she walked with
nervous quickness.

"He's looking very well," said Semingham. "A bit fagged, and so on, you
know, of course, but he'll soon get all right here."

"Yes, yes, very soon," she replied absently, quickening her pace till he
had to force his to match it. But, half-way up the hill, she stopped
suddenly, breathing rapidly.

"Yes, take a rest, we've been bucketing," said he.

"Did he ask after me?"

"Yes; directly."

"And you said----?"

"Oh, that you were all right, Mrs. Dennison."

"Thanks. Has he seen Mr. Loring?"

"No; but he knew he had come here. He told me so."

"Well, I needn't take you right up, need I?"

Semingham thought of some jest about not intruding on the sacred scene,
but the jest did not come. Somehow he shrank from it. Mrs. Dennison did
not.

"We shall want to fall on one another's necks," said she, smiling. "And
you'd feel in the way. You hate honest emotions, you know."

He nodded, lifted his hat, and turned. On his way down alone, he stopped
once for a moment and exclaimed,

"Good heavens! And I believe she'd rather meet the devil himself. She is
a woman!"

Mrs. Dennison pursued her way at a gentler pace. Before she came in
sight, she heard her children's delighted chatterings, and, a moment
later, Harry's hearty tones. His voice brought to her, in fullest force,
the thing that was always with her--with her as the cloak that a man
hath upon him, and as the girdle that he is always girded withal.

When the children saw her, they ran to her, seizing her hands and
dragging her towards Harry. A little way off stood Marjory Valentine,
with a nervous smile on her lips. Harry himself stood waiting, and Mrs.
Dennison walked up to him and kissed him. Not till that was done did she
speak or look him in the face. He returned her kiss, and then, talking
rapidly, she made him sit down, and sat herself, and took her little boy
on her knee. And she called Marjory, telling her jokingly that she was
one of the family.

Harry began to talk of his journey, and they all joined in. Then he grew
silent, and the children chattered more about the delights of Dieppe,
and how all would be perfect now that father was come. And, under cover
of their chatter, Maggie Dennison stole a long covert glance at her
husband.

"And Tom's here, father," cried the little boy on her lap exultingly.

"Yes," chimed in Madge, "and Mr. Ruston's gone."

There was a momentary pause; then Mrs. Dennison, in her calmest voice,
began to tell her husband of the sickness of the Baron. And over Harry
Dennison's face there rested a new look, and she felt it on her as she
talked of the Baron. She had seen him before unsatisfied, puzzled, and
bewildered by her, but never before with this look on his face. It
seemed to her half entreaty and half suspicion. It was plain for
everyone to see. He kept his eyes on her, and she knew that Marjory must
be reading him as she read him. And under that look she went on talking
about the Baron. The look did not frighten her. She did not fear his
suspicions, for she believed he would still take her word against all
the world--ay, against the plainest proof. But she almost broke under
the burden of it; it made her heart sick with pity for him. She longed
to cry out, then and there, "It isn't true, Harry, my poor dear, it
isn't true." She could tell him that--it would not be all a lie. And
when the children went away to prepare for lunch, she did much that very
thing; for, with a laughing glance of apology at Marjory, she sat on her
husband's knee and kissed him twice on either check, whispering,

"I'm so glad you've come, Harry."

And he caught her to him with sudden violence--unlike his usual manner,
and looked into her eyes and kissed her. Then they rose, and he turned
towards the house.

For a moment Marjory and Mrs. Dennison were alone together. Mrs.
Dennison spoke in a loud clear voice--a voice her husband must hear.

"We're shamefully foolish, aren't we, Marjory?"

The girl made no answer, but, as she looked at Maggie Dennison, she
burst into a sudden convulsive sob.

"Hush, hush," whispered Maggie eagerly. "My God! if I can, you can!"

So they went in and joined the children at their merry noisy meal.




                              CHAPTER XXI.

                         A JOINT IN HIS ARMOUR.


Willie Ruston slept, on the night following his return to London, in the
Carlins' house at Hampstead. The all-important question of the railway
made a consultation necessary, and Ruston's indisposition to face his
solitary rooms caused him to accept gladly the proffered hospitality.
The little cramped place was always a refuge and a rest; there he could
best rejoice over a victory or forget a temporary defeat. There he fled
now, in the turmoil of his mind. The question of the railway had hurried
him from Dieppe, but it could not carry away from him the memories of
Dieppe. Yet that was the office he had already begun to ask of it--of it
and of the quiet busy life at Hampstead, where he lingered till a week
stretched to two and to three, spending his days at work in the City,
and his evenings, after his romp with the children, in earnest and eager
talk and speculation. He regretted bitterly his going to Dieppe. He had
done what he condemned; he had raised up a perpetual reproach and a
possible danger. He was not a man who could dismiss such a thing with a
laugh or a sneer, with a pang of penitence and a swift reaction to the
low levels of morality, with a regret for imprudence and a prayer
against consequences. His nature was too deep, and the influence he had
met too strong, for any of these to be enough. Yet he had suffered the
question of the railway to drag him away at a moment's notice; and he
was persuaded that he must take his leaving as setting an end to all
that had passed. All that must be put behind; forgetfulness in thought
might be a relief impossible to attain, a relief that he would be
ashamed of striving to attain; but forgetfulness in act seemed a duty to
be done. In his undeviating reference of everything to his own work in
life and his neglect of any other touchstone, he erected into an
obligation what to another would have been a shameless matter of course;
or, again, to yet another, a source of shame-faced relief. His sins were
sin first against himself, in the second degree only against the
participant in them; his preoccupation with their first quality went far
to blind him to the second.

Yet he was very sorry for Maggie Dennison. Nay, those words were
ludicrously feeble for the meaning he wanted from them. Acutely
conscious of having done her a wrong, he was vaguely aware that he might
underestimate the wrong, and remembered uneasily how she had told him
that he did not understand, and despaired because he could not
understand. He felt more for her now--much more, it seemed to him; but
the consciousness of failure to put himself where she stood dogged him,
making him afraid sometimes that he could not realise her sufferings,
sometimes that he was imputing to her fictitious tortures and a sense of
ignominy which was not her own. Searching light, he began to talk to
Carlin in general terms, of course, and by way of chance discourse; and
he ran up against a curious stratum of Puritanism imbedded amongst the
man's elastic principles. The narrowest and harshest judgment of an
erring woman accompanied the supple trader and witnessed the surviving
barbarian in Mr. Carlin; an accidental distant allusion displayed an
equally relentless attitude in his meek hard-working little wife. Willie
Ruston drew in his feelers, and, aghast at the evil these opinions
stamped as the product of his acts, declared for a moment that his life
must be the only and insufficient atonement. The moment was a brief one.
He dismissed the opinions with a curse, their authors with a smile, and
did not scorn to take for comfort even Maggie Dennison's own enthusiasm
for his work. That had drawn them together; that must rule and limit the
connection which it had created. An end--a bound--a peremptory stop
(there was still time to stop) was the thing. She would see that, as he
saw it. God knew (he said to himself) what a wrench it was--for she
meant more to him than he had ever conceived a woman could mean; but the
wrench must be undergone. He would rather die than wreck his work; and
she, he knew, rather die than prove a wrecking siren to him.

Suddenly, across the desponding stubbornness of his resolves, flashed,
with a bright white light, the news of the Baron's legacy, accompanying,
but, after a hasty regretful thought and a kindly regretful smile,
obliterating the fact of the Baron's death. Half the steps upward, he
felt, which he had set himself painfully and with impatient labour to
cut, were hewn deep and smooth for his feet; he had now but to tread,
and lift his foot and tread again. From a paid servant of his Company,
powerful only by a secret influence unbased on any substantial
foundation, he leapt to the position of a shareholder with a larger
stake than any man besides; no intrigue could shake him now, no sudden
gust of petulant impatience at the tardiness of results displace him. He
had never thought of this motive behind the Baron's large purchases of
Omofaga shares; as he thought of it, he had not been himself had he not
smiled. And his smile was of the same quality as had burst on his face
when first Maggie Dennison dropped the veil and owned his sway.

One day he did not go down to the city, but spent his time wandering on
the heath, mapping out what he would do in the fast-approaching days in
Omofaga. The prospects were clearing; he had had two interviews with
Lord Detchmore, and the Minister had fallen back from his own objections
on to the scruples of his colleagues. It was a promising sign, and
Willie was pressing his advantage. The fall in the shares had been
checked; Tom Loring wrote no more; and Mrs. Carlin had forgotten to
mourn the extinct coal business. He came home, with a buoyant step, at
four o'clock, to find Carlin awaiting him with dismayed face. There was
the worst of news from Queen Street. Mr. Dennison had written announcing
resignation of his place on the Board.

"It's a staggering blow," said Carlin, thrusting his hands into his
pockets. "Can't you bring him round? Why is he doing it?"

"Well, what does he say?" asked Ruston, a frown on his brow.

"Oh, some nonsense--pressure of other business or something of that
kind. Can't you go and see him, Willie? He's back in town. He writes
from Curzon Street."

"I don't know why he does it," said Ruston slowly. "I knew he'd been
selling out."

"He hasn't made money at that."

"No. I've made the profit there," said Ruston, with a sudden smile.

"The Baron bought 'em, eh?" laughed Carlin. "You generally come out
right side up, Willie. You'll go and see him, though, won't you?"

Yes. He would go. That was the resolution which in a moment he reached.
If there were danger, he must face it, if there were calamity, he must
know it. He would go and see Harry Dennison.

As he was, on the stroke of half-past four, he jumped into a hansom-cab,
and bade the man drive to Curzon Street.

Harry was not at home--nor Mrs. Dennison, added the servant. But both
were expected soon.

"I'll wait," said Willie, and he was shown up into the drawing-room.

As the servant opened the door, he said in his low respectful tones,

"Mrs. Cormack is here, sir, waiting for Mrs. Dennison."

A moment later Willie Ruston was overwhelmed in a shrilly enthusiastic
greeting. Mrs. Cormack had been in despair from _ennui_; Maggie's delay
was endless, and Mr. Ruston was in verity a godsend. Indeed there was
every appearance of sincerity in the lady's welcome. She stood and
looked at him with an expression of most wicked and mischievous
pleasure. The remorse detected by Tom Loring was not visible now; pure
delight reigned supreme, and gave free scope to her frivolous
fearlessness.

"_Enfin!_" she said. "Behold the villain of the piece!"

He opened his eyes in questioning.

"Oh, you think to deceive me too? Why, I have prophesied it."

"You are," said Willie, standing on the hearth-rug, and gazing at her
nervous restless figure, so rich in half-expressed hints too subtle for
language, "the most outrageous of women, Mrs. Cormack. Fortunately you
have a fling at everybody, and the saints come off as badly as the
sinners."

A shrug asserted her opinion of his pretences. He answered,

"I really am so unfortunate as not to have the least idea what you're
driving at."

An inarticulate scornful little sound greeted this protest.

"Oh, well, I shall wait till you say something," remarked Willie, with a
laugh. "I can't deny villainies wholesale, and I can't argue against
Gallic ejaculations."

"You still come here?" she asked, ignoring his rudeness, and coming to
close quarters with native audacity.

He looked at her for a moment, and then walked up to her chair, and
stood over her. She leant back, gazing up at him with a smile.

"Look here! Don't talk nonsense," he said brusquely; "even such talk as
yours may do harm with fools."

"Fools!" she echoed. "You mean----?"

"More than half the world," he interrupted.

"Including----?" she began again in mockery.

"Some of our acquaintance," he answered, with the glimmer of a smile.

"Ah, I thought you were angry!" she cried, pointing at the smile on his
lips.

"I shall be, if you don't hold your tongue."

"You beg me to be silent, Mr. Ruston?"

"I desire you not to chatter about me, Mrs. Cormack."

"Ah, what politeness! I shall say what I please," and she rose and stood
facing him defiantly.

"I wish," he said, "that I could tell you what they do to gossiping
women in Omofaga. It is so very disagreeable--and appropriate."

"Oh, I don't mind hearing."

"I can believe it, but I mind saying."

She flushed, and her breath came more quickly.

"No doubt you will enforce the treatment--in your own interest," she
said.

"You won't be there," replied he, with affected regret.

"Well, here I shall say what I please."

"And who will listen?"

"One man, at least," she cried, in incautious anger. "Ah, you'd like to
beat me, wouldn't you?"

"Why suggest the impossible?" he asked, smiling. "I can't beat
every----" he paused, and added with deliberateness, "every
vulgar-minded woman in London;" and turning his back on her, he sat down
and took up a newspaper that lay on the table.

For full five or six minutes Mrs. Cormack sat silent. Willie Ruston
glanced through the leading article, and turned the paper, folding it
neatly. There was a letter from a correspondent on the subject of the
watersheds of Central South Africa, and he was reading it with
attention. He thought that he recognised Tom Loring's hand. The
watersheds of Omofaga were not given their due. Ah, and here was that
old falsehood about arid wastes round Fort Imperial!

"By Jove, it's too bad!" he exclaimed aloud.

Mrs. Cormack, who had for the last few moments been watching him, first
with a frown, then with a half-incredulous, half-amazed smile, burst out
into laughter.

"Really, one might as well be offended with a grizzly bear!" she cried.

He put down the paper, and met her gaze.

"How in the world," she went on, "does she--there, I beg your pardon.
How does anyone endure you, Mr. Ruston?"

As she spoke, before he could answer, the door opened, and Harry
Dennison came in. He entered with a hesitating step. After greeting Mrs.
Cormack, he advanced towards Ruston. The latter held out his hand, and
Harry took it. He did not look Ruston in the eyes.

"How are you?" said he. "You want to see me?"

"Well, for a moment, if you can spare the time--on business."

"Is it about my letter to Carlin?"

Ruston nodded. Mrs. Cormack kept a close watch.

"I--I can't alter that," said Harry, in a confused way. "Sir George is
so crippled now, so much of the work falls on me; I have really no
time."

"You might have left us your name."

"I couldn't do that, could I? Suppose you came to grief?" and he laughed
uncomfortably.

Willie Ruston was afflicted by a sense of weakness--a vulnerability new
in his experience--forbidding him to be urgent with the renegade. Had
Carlin been present, he would have stood astounded at his chief's
tonguetiedness. Mrs. Cormack smiled at it, and her smile, caught in a
swift glance by Ruston, spurred him to a voluble appeal, that sounded to
himself hollow and ineffective. It had no effect on Harry Dennison, who
said little, but shook his head with unfailing resolution. Mrs. Cormack
could not resist the temptation to offer matters an opportunity of
development.

"But what does Maggie say to your desertion?" she asked in an innocently
playful way.

Harry seemed nonplussed at the question, and Willie Ruston interposed.

"We needn't bring Mrs. Dennison into it," he said, smiling. "It's a
matter of business, and if Dennison has made up his mind----"

He ended with a shrug, and took up his hat.

"I--I think so, Ruston," stumbled Harry.

"Where is Maggie?" asked Mrs. Cormack curiously. "They told me she would
be in soon."

"I don't know," said Harry. "She went out driving. She's sometimes late
in coming back."

Ruston was shaking hands with Mrs. Cormack, and, when he walked out,
Harry followed him. The two men went downstairs in silence. Harry opened
the front door. Willie Ruston held out his hand, but Harry did not this
time take it. Holding the door-knob, he looked at his visitor with a
puzzled entreaty in his eyes, and his visitor suddenly felt sorry for
him.

"I hope Mrs. Dennison is well?" said Ruston, after a pause.

"No," answered Harry, with rough abruptness. "She's not well. I knew how
it would be; I told you. You would go."

"My dear fellow----"

"You would talk to her about your miserable Company--our Company, if you
like. I knew it would do her harm. I told you so."

He was pouring out his incoherent charges and repetitions in a fretful
petulance.

"The doctor says her nerves are all wrong; she must be left alone. I see
it. She's not herself."

"Then that," said Ruston, "is the real reason why you're severing
yourself from us?"

"I don't want her to hear anything more about it; she got absorbed in
it. I told you she would, but you wouldn't listen. Tom Loring thought
just the same. But you would go."

"Is she ill?"

"Oh, I don't know that she's ill. She's--she's not herself. She's
strange."

The note of distress in his voice grew more acute as he went on.

"I'm very sorry," said Willie, baldly. "Give her my best----"

"If you want to see me again about it, I--you'll always know where to
find me in the City, won't you?" He shuffled his feet nervously, and
twisted the door-knob as he spoke.

"You mean," asked Ruston, slowly, "that I'd better not come here?"

"Well, yes--just now," mumbled Harry; and he added apologetically,
"She's seeing very few people just now, you know."

"As you please, of course," said Ruston, shortly. "I daresay you're
right. I should like to say, Dennison, that I did not intend----." He
suddenly stopped short. There was no need to rush unbidden into more
falseness. "Good-bye," he said.

Harry took the offered hand in a limp grasp, but his eyes did not leave
the ground. A moment later the door closed, and Ruston was alone
outside--knowing that he had been turned out--in however ineffective
blundering manner, yet, in fact, turned out--and by Harry Dennison. That
Harry knew nothing, he hardly felt as a comfort; that perhaps he
suspected hardly as a danger. He was angry and humiliated that such a
thing should happen, and that he should be powerless to prevent, and
without title to resent, the blow.

Looking up he caught sight dimly in the dim light of a lithe figure and
a mocking face. Mrs. Cormack had regained her own house by means of the
little gate, and stood leaning over the balcony smiling at him like some
disguised fiend in a ballet or opera-bouffe. He heard a tinkling laugh.
Had she listened? She was capable of it, and if she had, it might well
be that she had caught a word or two. But perhaps his air and attitude
were enough to tell the tale. She craned her neck over the parapet, and
called to him.

"I hope we shall see you soon again. Of course, you'll be coming to see
Maggie soon?"

"Oh, soon, I hope," he answered sturdily, and the low tinkle of laughter
rang out again in answer.

Without more, he turned on his heel and walked down the street, a morose
frown on his brow.

He had been gone some half-hour when, just before eight o'clock, Mrs.
Dennison's victoria drove quickly up to the door. The evening was chilly
and she was wearing her furs. Her face rose pale and rigid above them;
and as she walked to the house, her steps dragged as though in
weariness. She did not go upstairs, but knocked, almost timidly, at the
door of her husband's study. Entering in obedience to his call, she
found him sitting in his deep leathern arm-chair by the fire. She leant
her arm on the back and stared over his head into the fire.

"Anyone been, Harry?" she asked.

He lifted his eyes with a start.

"Is it you, Maggie?" he cried, leaping up and seizing her hand. "Why,
how cold you are, dear! Come and sit by the fire."

She did as he bade her.

"Any visitors?" she asked again.

"Ruston," he answered, turning and poking the fire as he did so. "He
came to see me about the Company, you know."

"Is he long gone?"

"Yes, some time."

"He was angry, was he?"

"Yes, Maggie. But I stuck to it. I won't have anything more to do with
the thing."

His petulance betrayed itself again in his voice. She said nothing, and,
after a moment, he asked anxiously,

"Do you mind much? You know the doctor----?"

"Oh, the doctor! No, Harry, I don't mind. Do as you like. He can get on
without us."

"If you really mind, I'll try----"

"No, no, no," she burst out. "You're quite right. Of course you're
right. I don't want you to go on. I'm tired of it too."

"Are you?" he asked, with a face suddenly brightening. "Are you really?
Then I'm glad I told Ruston not to come bothering about it here."

Had he been listening, he could have heard the sharp indrawing of her
breath.

"What do you mean?" she asked.

"Why, I told him not to come and see you till--till you were stronger."

She shot a terrified glance at him. His expression was merely anxious
and, according to its wont when he was in a difficulty, apologetic.

"And he won't be here much longer now," he added, comfortingly.

"No, not much," she forced herself to murmur.

"Won't you go and dress for dinner?" he asked, after a moment. "It's
ordered for a quarter-past, and it's more than that now."

"Is it? I'll come directly. You go, and I'll follow you. I shan't be
long."

He came near to where she sat.

"Are you feeling better?" he asked.

"Oh, Harry, Harry, I'm well, perfectly well! You and your doctor!" and
she broke into an impatient laugh. "You'll persuade me into the grave
before you've done."

He looked at her for a moment, and then, shaping his lips to whistle,
sounded a few dreary notes and stole out of the room.

She heard the door close, and, sitting up, stretched her arms over her
head. Then she sighed for relief at his going. It was much to be alone.




                             CHAPTER XXII.

                         A TOAST IN CHAMPAGNE.


"A month to-day!" said Lady Valentine, pausing in her writing (she had
just set "Octr. 10th" at the head of her paper) and gazing sorrowfully
across the room at Marjory.

Marjory knew well what she meant. The poor woman was counting the days
that still lay between her and the departure of her son.

"Now don't, mother," protested Marjory.

"Oh, I know I'm silly. I met Mr. Ruston at the Seminghams' yesterday,
and he told me that there wasn't the least danger, and that it was a
glorious chance for Walter--just what you said from the first, dear--and
that Walter could run over and see me in about eighteen months' time.
Oh, but, Marjory, I know it's dangerous!"

Marjory rose and crossed over to where her mother sat.

"You must be a Spartan matron, dear," said she. "You can't keep Walter
in leading strings all his life."

"No; but he might have stayed here, and got on, and gone into
Parliament, and so on." She paused and added, "Like Evan, you know."

Marjory coloured--more from self-reproach than embarrassment. She had
gone in these last weeks terribly near to forgetting poor Evan's
existence.

"Evan came in while I was at the Seminghams'. He looked so dull, poor
fellow. I--I asked him to dinner, Marjory. He hasn't been here for a
long while. We haven't seen nearly as much of him since we knew Mr.
Ruston. I don't think they like one another."

"You know why he hasn't come here," said Marjory softly.

"He spent a week with me while you were at Dieppe. He seemed to like to
hear about you."

A smile of sad patience appeared on Marjory's face.

"Oh, my dear, you are such a bad hinter," she half laughed, half moaned.

"Poor Evan! I'm very sorry for him; but I can't help it, can I?"

"It would have been so nice."

"And you used to be such a mercenary creature!"

"Ah, well, my dear, I want to keep one of my children with me. But, if
it can't be, it can't."

Marjory bent down and whispered in her mother's ear, "I'm not going to
Omofaga, dear."

"Well, I used to be half afraid of it," admitted Lady Valentine (she
forgot that she had half hoped it also); "but you never seem to be
interested in him now. Do you mind Evan coming to dinner?"

"Oh, no," said Marjory.

Since her return from Dieppe she had seemed to "mind" nothing.
Relaxation of the strain under which her days passed there had left her
numbed. She was conscious only of a passionate shrinking from the sight
or company of the two people who had there filled her life. To meet them
again forced her back in thought to that dreary mysterious night with
its unsolved riddle, that she feared seeking to answer.

Her mother had called on Maggie Dennison, and came back with a flow of
kindly lamentations over Maggie's white cheeks and listless weary air.
Her brother was constantly with Ruston, and tried to persuade her to
join parties of which he was to be one. She fenced with both of them,
escaping on one plea and another; and Maggie's acquiescence in her
absence, no less than Ruston's failure to make a chance of meeting her,
strengthened her resolve to remain aloof.

Young Sir Walter also came to dinner that night; he was very gay and
chatty, full of Omofaga and his fast-approaching expedition. He greeted
Evan Haselden with a manner that claimed at least equality; nay, he
lectured him a little on the ignorant interference of a stay-at-home
House of Commons with the work of the men on the spot, in South Africa
and elsewhere; people on this side would not give a man a free hand, he
complained, and exhorted Evan to take no part in such ill-advised
meddling.

Hence he was led on to the topic he was never now far away from--Willie
Ruston--and he reproached his mother and sister for their want of
attention to the hero.

This was the first gleam of light for poor Evan Haselden, for it told
him that Willie Ruston was not, as he had feared, a successful rival. He
rejoiced at Lady Valentine's hinted dislike of Ruston, and anxiously
studied Marjory's face in hope of detecting a like disposition. But his
vanity led him to return Walter's lecture, and he added an innuendo
concerning the unscrupulousness of adventurers who cloaked money-making
under specious pretences. Walter flared up in a moment, and the dinner
ended in something like a dispute between the two young men.

"Well, Dennison's found him out, anyhow," said Evan bitterly. "He's cut
the whole concern."

"We can do without Dennison," said young Sir Walter scornfully.

When the meal was finished, young Sir Walter, treating his friend
without ceremony, carelessly pleaded an engagement, and went out. Lady
Valentine, interpreting Evan's glances, and hoping against hope, seized
the chance of leaving him alone with her daughter. Marjory watched the
manoeuvre without thwarting it. Her heart was more dead to Evan than it
had ever been. Her experiences at Dieppe had aged her mind, and she
found him less capable of stirring any feeling in her than even in the
days when she had half made a hero out of Willie Ruston.

She waited for his words in resignation; and he, acute enough to mark
her moods, began as a man begins who rushes on anticipated defeat. What
is unintelligible seems most irresistible, and he knew not at what point
to attack her indifference. He saw the change in her; he could have
dated its beginning. The cause he found somehow in Ruston, but yet it
was clear to him that she did not think of Ruston as a suitor--almost
clear that she heard his name and thought of him with repulsion--and
that the attraction he had once exercised over her was gone.

The weary talk wore to its close, ending with angry petulance on his
side, and, at last, on hers with a grief that was half anger. He could
not believe in her decision, unless there were one who had displaced
him; and, seeing none save Ruston, in spite of his own convictions, he
broke at last into a demand to be told whether she thought of him.
Marjory started in horror, crying, "No, no," and, for all Evan's
preoccupation, her vehemence amazed him.

"Oh, you've found him out too, perhaps," he sneered. "You've found him
out by now. All the same, it was his fault that you didn't care for me
before."

"Evan," she implored, "do, pray, not talk like that. There's not a man
in the whole world that I would not have for my husband rather than
him."

"Now," he repeated; "but I'm speaking of before."

Half angry again at that he should allow himself such an insinuation,
she yet liked him too well, and felt too unhappy to be insincere.

"Well," she said with a troubled smile, "if you like, I've found him
out."

"Then, Marjory," cried Evan, in a spasm of reviving hope, "if that
fellow's out of the way----"

But she would not hear him, and he flung himself out of the house with a
rudeness that his love pardoned.

She heard him go, in aching sorrow that he, who felt few things deeply,
should feel this one so deeply. Then, following the calls of society,
which are followed in spite of most troubles, she, pale-faced and sad,
and her mother, almost weeping in motherly distress, dressed themselves
to go to a party. Lady Semingham was at home that night.

At the party all was gay and bright. Lady Semingham was chattering to
Mr. Otto Heather. Semingham was trying to make Mr. Foster Belford
understand the story of the Baron and Willie Ruston, Lord Detchmore, who
had come in from a public dinner, was conspicuous in his blue riband,
and was listening to Adela Ferrars with a smile on his face. Marjory sat
down in a corner, hoping to escape introductions, and, when an old
friend carried her mother off to eat an ice, she kept her place.
Presently she heard cried, "Mrs. Dennison," and Maggie came in with her
usual grace. It seemed as though the last few months were blotted out,
and they were all again at that first party at Mrs. Dennison's where
Willie Ruston had made his _entrée_. The illusion was not to lack
confirmation, for, a moment later, Ruston himself was announced, and the
sound of his name made Adela turn her head for one swift moment from her
distinguished companion.

"Ah!" said Lord Detchmore, "then I must go. If I talk to him any more
I'm a lost man."

"There's Mr. Loring in the corner--no, not that corner; that's Marjory
Valentine. He will take your side."

"Why are they all in corners?" asked Detchmore.

"They don't want to be trodden on," said Adela, with a grimace. "You'd
better take one too."

"There's Mrs. Dennison in a third corner. Shall I take that one, or
should I get trodden on there?"

Adela looked up swiftly. His remark hinted at gossip afloat.

"Take one for yourself," she began, with an uneasy laugh. But the laugh
suddenly became genuine for the very absurdity of the thing. "We'll go
and join Mr. Loring, shall we?" she proposed.

Lord Detchmore acquiesced, and they walked over to where Tom stood. On
their way, to their consternation, they encountered Willie Ruston.

"Now we're in for it," breathed Detchmore in low tones. But Ruston, with
a bow, passed on, going straight as an arrow towards where Maggie
Dennison sat. Lord Detchmore raised his eyebrows, Adela shut her fan
with a click, Tom Loring, when they reached him, was frowning. Away
across the room sat Marjory alone.

"Good heavens! he let me alone!" exclaimed Lord Detchmore.

"Perhaps I was your shield," said Adela. "He doesn't like me."

"Nor you, Loring, I expect?"

Presently Lord Detchmore moved away, leaving Adela and Tom together.
They had been together a good deal lately, and their tones showed the
intimacy of friendship.

"That man," said Adela quickly, "suspects something. He's a terrible old
gossip, although he is a great statesman, of course. Can't you prevent
them talking there together?"

"No," said Tom composedly, "I can't; she'd send me away if I went."

"Then I shall go. Why isn't Harry here?"

"He wouldn't come. I've been dining with him at the club."

"He ought to have come."

"I don't believe it would have made any difference."

Adela looked at him for a moment; then she walked swiftly across the
room to Maggie Dennison, and held out her hand.

"Maggie, I haven't had a talk with you for ever so long. How do you do,
Mr. Ruston?"

Ruston shook hands but did not move. He stood silently through two or
three moments of Adela's forced chatter. Mrs. Dennison was sitting on a
small couch, which would just hold two people; but she sat in the middle
of it, and did not offer to make room for Adela. When Adela paused for
want of anything to say, there was silence. She looked from the one to
the other. Ruston smiled the smile that always exasperated her on his
face--the smile of possession she called it in an attempt at definition.

"Look at Marjory!" said Mrs. Dennison. "How solitary she looks! Poor
girl! Do go and talk to her, Adela."

"I came to talk to you," said Adela, in fiery temper.

"Well, I'll come and talk to you both directly," said Maggie.

"We're talking business," added Willie Ruston, still smiling.

"Oh, if you don't want me!" cried Adela, and she turned away, declaring
in her heart that she had made the last effort of friendship.

With her going went Ruston's smile. He bent his head, and said in a low
voice,

"You are the only woman whom I could have left like that, and the only
one whom I could have found it hard to leave. Was it very hard for you?"

"It was just the truth for me," she answered.

"Of course you were angry and hurt. I was afraid you would be," he said.

She looked at him with a curious smile.

"But then," he continued, "you saw how I was placed. Do you think I
didn't suffer in going? I've never had such a wrench in my life. Won't
you forgive me, Maggie?"

"Forgive! What's the use of talking like that? What's the use of my
'forgiving' you for being what you are?"

"You talk as if you'd found me out in something."

She turned to him, saying very low,

"And haven't you found me out, too? We are face to face now, Willie."

He did not fully understand her. Half in justification, half in apology,
he said doggedly,

"I simply had to go."

"Yes, you simply had to go. There was the railway. Oh, what's the use of
talking about it?"

"I was afraid you meant to have nothing more to do with me."

"Or you wished it?" she asked quickly.

He started. She had discerned the thoughts that came into his mind in
his solitary walks.

"Don't be afraid. I've wished it," she added.

There was a pause; then he, not denying her charge, whispered,

"I can't wish it now--not when I'm with you."

"To have nothing more to do with you! Ah, Willie, I have nothing to do
with anything but you."

A swift glance from him told her that her appeal touched him.

"What else is left me? Can I live as I am living?"

"What are we to do?" he asked. "We shall see one another sometimes now.
I can't come to your house, you know. But sometimes----"

"At a party--here and there! And the rest of the time I must live at--at
home! Home!"

He bent to her, whispering,

"We must arrange----"

"No, no," she replied, passionately. "Don't you see?"

"What?" he asked, puzzled.

"Oh, you don't understand! It's not that. It's not that I can't live
without you."

"I never said that," he interposed quickly.

"And yet I suppose it is that. But it's something more. Willie, I can't
live with him."

"Does he suspect?" he asked in an eager whisper.

"I don't know. I really don't know. It's worse if he doesn't. Oh, if you
knew what I feel when he looks at me and asks----"

"Asks what?"

"Nothing--nothing in words; but, Willie, everything, everything. I shall
go mad, if I stay. And then don't you see----?" She stopped, going on
again a moment later. "I've borne it till I could see you. But I can't
go on bearing it."

He glanced at her.

"We can't talk about it here," he said. "Everybody will see how agitated
you are."

For answer she schooled her face to rigidity, and her hands to
motionlessness.

"You must talk about it--here and now," she said. "It's the only time
I've seen you since--Dieppe. What are you going to do, Willie?"

He looked round. Then, with a smile, he offered his arm.

"I must take you to have something," he said. "Come, we must walk
through the room."

She rose and took his arm. Bowing and smiling, she turned to greet her
acquaintances. She stopped to speak to Lord Detchmore, and exchanged a
word with her host.

"Yes. What are you going to do?" she asked again, aloud.

They had reached the room where the _buffet_ stood. Mrs. Dennison, after
a few words to Lady Valentine, who was still there, sat down on a chair
a little remote from the crowd. Ruston brought her a cup of coffee, and
stood in front of her, with the half-conscious intention of shielding
her from notice. She drank the coffee hastily; its heat brought a slight
glow to her face.

"You're going as you planned?" she asked.

He answered in low, dry tones, emptied of all emotion.

"Yes," said he, "I'm going."

She stretched out her hand towards him imploringly.

"Willie, you must take me with you," she said.

He looked down with startled face.

"My God, Maggie!" he exclaimed.

"I can't stay here. I can't stay with him."

Her lips quivered; he took her cup from her (he feared that she would
let it fall), and set it on the table. Behind them he heard merry
voices; Semingham's was loud among them. The voices were coming near
them.

"I must think," he whispered. "We can't talk now. I must see you again."

"Where?" she asked helplessly.

"Carlin's. Come up to-morrow. I can arrange it. For heaven's sake, begin
to talk about something."

She looked up in his face.

"I could stand here and tell it to the room," she said, "sooner than
live as I live now."

He had no time to answer. Semingham's arm was on his shoulder. Lord
Detchmore stood by his side.

"I want," said Semingham, "to introduce Lord Detchmore to you, Mrs.
Dennison. It's not at all disinterested of me. You must persuade
him--you know what about."

"No, no," laughed the Minister, "I mustn't be talked to; it's highly
improper, and I distrust my virtue."

"I'll be bound now that you were talking about Omofaga this very
minute," pursued Semingham.

"Of course we were," said Ruston.

"You're a great enthusiast, Mrs. Dennison," smiled Detchmore. "You ought
to go out, you know. Can't you persuade your husband to lend you to the
expedition?"

Ruston could have killed the man for his _malapropos_ jesting. Maggie
Dennison seemed unable to answer it. Semingham broke in lightly,

"It would be a fine chance for proving the quality--and the equality--of
women," said he. "I always told Mrs. Dennison that she ought to be Queen
of Omofaga."

"And I hope," said Detchmore, with a significant smile, "that there'll
soon be a railway to take you there."

Even at that moment, the light of triumph came suddenly gleaming into
Ruston's eyes. He looked at Detchmore, who laughed and nodded.

"I think so. I think I shall be able to manage it," he said.

"That's an end to all our troubles," said Semingham. "Come, we'll drink
to it."

He signed to a waiter, who brought champagne. Lord Detchmore gallantly
pressed a glass on Mrs. Dennison. She shook her head, but took it.

"Long life to Omofaga, and death to its enemies!" cried Semingham in
burlesque heroics, and, with a laugh--that was, as his laughs so often
were, as much at himself as at the rest of the world--he made a mock
obeisance to Willie Ruston, adding, "_Moriamur pro rege nostro!_" and
draining the glass.

Maggie Dennison's eyes sparkled. Behind the mockery in Semingham's jest,
behind the only half make-believe homage which Detchmore's humorous
glance at Ruston showed, she saw the reality of deference, the
acknowledgment of power in the man she loved. For a brief moment she
tasted the troubled joy which she had paid so high to win. For a moment
her eyes rested on Willie Ruston as a woman's eyes rest on a man who is
the world's as well as hers, but also hers as he is not the world's. She
sipped the champagne, echoing in her low rich voice, so that the men but
just caught the words, "_Moriamur pro rege nostro_" and gave the glass
into Ruston's hand.

A sudden seriousness fell upon them. Detchmore glanced at Semingham, and
thence, curiously, at Willie Ruston, whose face was pale and marked with
a deep-lined frown. Mrs. Dennison had sunk back in her chair, and her
heart rose and fell in agitated breathings. Then Willie Ruston spoke in
cool deliberate tones.

"The King there was a Queen," he said. "You've drunk to the wrong
person, Semingham. I'll drink it right," and, bowing to Maggie Dennison,
he drained his glass. Looking up, he found Detchmore's eyes on him in
overpowering wonder.

"If I tell you a story, Lord Detchmore," said he, "you'll understand,"
and, yielding his place by Maggie Dennison, he took Detchmore with him,
and they walked away in talk.

It was an hour later when Lord Detchmore took leave of his host.

"Well, did you hear the story?" asked Semingham.

"Yes; I heard it," said Detchmore, "about the telegram, wasn't it?"

"Yes, and of course, you see, it explains the toast."

"That sounds like a question, Semingham."

"Oh, no. The note of interrogation was--a printer's error."

"It's a remarkable story."

"It really is," said Semingham.

"And--is it the whole story?"

"Well, isn't it enough to justify the toast?"

"It--and she--are enough," said Detchmore. "But, Semingham----"

Lord Semingham, however, took him by the arm, walked him into the hall,
got his hat and coat for him, helped him on with them, and wished him
good-night. Detchmore submitted without resistance. Just at the last,
however, as he fitted his hat on his head, he said,

"You're unusually explicit, Semingham. He goes to Omofaga soon, don't
he?"

"Yes, thank God," said Semingham, almost cheerfully.




                             CHAPTER XXIII.

                        THE CUTTING OF THE KNOT.


"You can manage it for me?" asked Willie Ruston.

"I suppose I can," answered Carlin; "but it's rather queer, isn't it,
Willie?"

"I don't know whether it's queer or not; but I must talk to her for
half-an-hour."

"Why not at Curzon Street?"

Ruston laughed a short little laugh.

"Do you really want the reason stated?" he inquired.

Carlin shook his head gloomily, but he attempted no remonstrance. He
confined himself to saying,

"I hope the deuce you're not getting yourself into a mess!"

"She'll be here about five. You must be here, you know, and you must
leave me with her. Look here, Carlin, I only want a word with her."

"But my wife----"

"Send your wife somewhere--to the theatre with the children, or
somewhere. Mind you're here to receive her."

He issued his orders and walked away. He hated making arrangements of
this sort, but there was (he told himself) no help for it. Anything was
better than talking to Maggie Dennison before the world in a
drawing-room. And it was for the last time. Removed from her presence,
he felt clear about that. The knot must be cut; the thing must be
finished. His approaching departure made a natural and inevitable end to
it; and her mad suggestion of coming with him shewed in its real
enormity as he mused on it in his solitary thoughts. For a moment she
had carried him away. The picture of her pale eloquent face, and the
gleam of her eager eyes had almost led him to self-betrayal; the idea of
her in such a mood beside him in his work and his triumphs had seemed
for the moment irresistible. She could double his strength and make joy
of his toil. But it could not be so; and for it to be so, if it could
be, he must stand revealed as a traitor to his friend, and be banned for
an outlaw by his acquaintance. He had been a traitor, of course, but he
need not persist. They--she and he--must not stereotype a passing
madness, nor refuse the rescue chance had given them. There was time to
draw back, to set matters right again--at least, to trammel up the
consequence of wrong.

When she came, and Carlin, frowning perplexedly, had, with awkward
excuses, taken himself away, he said all this to her in stumbling
speech. From the exaltation of the evening before they fell pitiably.
They had soared then in vaulting imagination over the bristling
barriers; to-day they could rise to no such height. Reality pressed hard
upon them, crushing their romance into crime, their passion to the
vulgarity of an everyday intrigue. This secret backstairs meeting seemed
to stamp all that passed at it with its own degrading sign; their
high-wrought defiance of the world and the right dwindled before their
eyes to a mean and sly evasiveness. So felt Willie Ruston; and Maggie
Dennison sat silent while he painted for her what he felt. She did not
interrupt him; now and again a shiver or a quick motion shewed that she
heard him. At last he had said his say, and stood, leaning against the
mantelpiece, looking down on her. Then, without glancing up, she asked,

"And what's to become of me, Willie?"

The sudden simple question revealed him to himself. Put in plain
English, his rigmarole meant, "Go your way and I'll go mine." What he
had said might be right--might be best--might be duty--might be
religion--might be anything you would. But a man may forfeit the right
to do right.

"Of you?" he stammered.

"I can't live as I am," she said.

He began to pace up and down the room. She sat almost listlessly in her
chair. There was an air of helplessness about her. But she was slowly
thinking over what he had said and realising its purport.

"You mean we're never to meet again?" she asked.

"Not that!" he cried, with a sudden heat that amazed himself. "Not that,
Maggie. Why that?"

"Why that?" she repeated in wondering tones. "What else do you mean? You
don't mean we should go on like this?"

He did not dare to answer either way. The one was now impossible--had
swiftly, as he looked at her, come to seem impossible; the other was to
treat her as not even he could treat her. She was not of the stuff to
live a life like that.

There was silence while he waged with himself that strange preposterous
struggle, where evil seemed good, and good a treachery not to be
committed; wherein his brain seemed to invite to meanness, and his
passion, for once, to point the better way.

"I wish to God we had never----" he began; but her despairing eyes
stifled the feeble useless sentence on his lips.

At last he came near to her; the lines were deep on his forehead, and
his mouth quivered under a forced smile. He laid his hand on her
shoulder. She looked up questioningly.

"You know what you're asking?" he said.

She nodded her head.

"Then so be it," said he; and he went again and leant against the
mantelpiece.

He felt that he had paid a debt with his life, but knew not whether the
payment were too high.

It seemed to him long before she spoke--long enough for him to repeat
again to himself what he had done--how that he, of all men, had made a
burden that would break his shoulders, and had fettered his limbs for
all his life's race--yet to be glad, too, that he had not shrunk from
carrying what he had made, and had escaped coupling the craven with his
other part.

"What do you mean?" she asked at last; and there was surprise in her
tone.

"It shall be as you wish," he answered. "We'll go through with it
together."

Though he was giving what she asked, she seemed hardly to understand.

"I can't let you go," he said; "and I suppose you can't let me go."

"But--but what'll happen?"

"God knows," said he. "We shall be a long way off, anyhow."

"In Omofaga, Willie?"

"Yes."

After a pause she rose and moved a step towards him.

"Why are you doing it?" she asked, searching his eyes with hers. "Is it
just because I ask? Because you're sorry for me?"

She was standing near him, and he looked on her face. Then he sprang
forward, catching her hands.

"It's because you're more to me than I ever thought any woman could be."

She let her hands lie in his.

"But you came here," she said, "meaning to send me away."

"I was a fool," he said, grimly, between his teeth.

She drew her hands away, and then whispered,

"And, Willie--Harry?"

Again he had nothing to answer. She stood looking at him with a wistful
longing for a word of comfort. He gave none. She passed her hand across
her eyes, and burst into sudden sobs.

"How miserable I am!" she sobbed. "I wish I was dead!"

He made as though to take her hand again, but she shrank, and he fell
back. With one hand over her eyes, she felt her way back to her chair.

For five minutes or more she sat crying. Ruston did not move. He had
nothing wherewith to console her, and he dared not touch her. Then she
looked up.

"If I were dead?" she said.

"Hush! hush! You'd break my heart," he answered in low tones.

In the midst of her weeping, for an instant she smiled.

"Ah, Willie, Willie!" she said; and he knew that she read him through
and through, so that he was ashamed to protest again.

She did not believe in that from him.

Presently her sobs ceased, and she crushed her handkerchief into a ball
in her hand.

"Well, Maggie?" said he in hard even tones.

She rose again to her feet and came to him.

"Kiss me, Willie," she said; "I'm going back home."

He took her in his arms and kissed her. She released herself, and gazed
long in his face.

"Why?" he asked. "You can't bear it; you know you can't. Come with me,
Maggie. I don't understand you."

"No; I don't understand myself. I came here meaning to go with you. I
came here thinking I could never bear to go back. Ah, you don't know
what it is to live there now. But I must go back. Ah, how I hate it!"

She laid her hand on his arm.

"Think--if I came with you! Think, Willie!"

"Yes," he said, as though it had been wrung from him, "I know. But come
all the same, Maggie," and with a sudden gust of passion he began to
beseech her, declaring that he could not live without her.

"No, no," she cried; "it's not true, Willie, or you're not the man I
loved. Go on, dear; go on. I shall hear about you. I shall watch you."

"But you'll be here--with him," he muttered in grim anger.

"Ah, Willie, are you still--still jealous? Even now?"

A silence fell between them.

"You shall come," he said at last. "What do I care for him or the rest
of them? I care for nothing but you."

"I will not come, Willie. I dare not come. Willie, in a week--in a
day--Willie, my dear, in an hour you will be glad that I would not
come."

As she spoke, her voice grew louder. The words sounded like a sentence
on him.

"Is that why?" he asked, regarding her with moody eyes.

She hesitated before she answered, in bewildered despair.

"Yes. I don't know. In part it is. And I daren't think of Harry. Let me
think, Willie, that it's a little bit because of Harry and the children.
I know I can't expect you to believe it, but it is a little, though it's
more because of you."

"Of me?--for my sake, do you mean?"

"No; not altogether for your sake; because of you."

"And, Maggie, if he suspects?"

"He won't suspect," she said. "He would take my word against the world."

"They suspect--some of them--that woman Mrs. Cormack. And--does
Marjory?"

"It is nothing. He won't believe. Marjory will not say a word."

"You'll persuade him that there was nothing----?"

"Yes; I'll persuade him," she answered.

She began to pull a glove on to her hand.

"I must go," she said. "It's nearly an hour since I came."

He took a step towards her.

"You won't come, Maggie?" he urged, and there was still eagerness in his
voice.

"Not again, Willie. I can't stand it again. Good-bye. I've given you
everything, Willie. And you'll think of me now and then?"

He was unmanned. He could not answer her, but turned towards the wall
and covered his face with his hand.

"I shan't think of you like that," she said, a note of wondering
reproach in her voice. "I shall think of you conquering. I like the hard
look that they blame you for. Well, you'll have it soon again, Willie."

She moved towards the door. He did not turn. She waited an instant
looking at him. A smile was on her lips, and a tear trickled down her
cheeks.

"It's like shutting the door on life, Willie," she said.

He sprang forward, but she raised her hand to stay him.

"No. It is--settled," said she; and she opened the door of the room and
walked out into the little entrance-hall.

It was a wet evening, and the rain pattered on the roof of the
projecting porch. They stood there a moment, till her cabman, who had
taken refuge in the lee of the garden wall, brought his vehicle up to
the door. They heard a step creak behind them in the hall, and then
recede. Carlin was treading on tip-toe away.

Maggie Dennison put out her hand and met Ruston's. She pressed his hand
with strength more than her own, and she said, very low,

"I am dying now--this way--for my king, Willie," and she stepped out
into the rain, and climbed into the cab.

"Back to where you brought me from," she called to the man, and leaning
forward, where the cab lamps caught her face, so that it gleamed like
the face of some marble statue, she looked on Willie Ruston. Her lips
moved, but he heard no word. The wheels turned and the lamps flashed,
and she was carried away.

Willie started forward a step or two, then ran to the gate and, leaning
on it, watched the red lights as they fled away; and long after they
were gone, he stood there, bareheaded, in the drenching rain. He did not
think; he still saw her, still heard her voice, and watched her broad
low brow. She still stood before him, not the fairest of women, but the
woman who was for him. And the rumble of retreating wheels sounded again
in his ears. She was gone.

How long he stood he did not know. Presently he felt an arm passed
through his, and he was led back to the house.

Old Carlin took him through the hall into his own little study, where a
bright fire blazed, and gave him brandy, which he drank, and helped him
off with his wet coat, and put a cricketing jacket on him, and pushed
him into an arm-chair, and hunted for a pair of slippers for him.

All this while neither spoke; and at last Carlin, his tasks done, stood
and warmed himself at the fire, looking steadily in front of him, and
never at his friend.

"You dear old fool," said Willie Ruston.

"Ah, well, well, you mustn't take cold. If you were laid up now, what
the deuce would become of Omofaga?"

His small, sharp, shrewd eyes blinked as he spoke, and he glanced at
Willie Ruston as he named Omofaga.

Willie sprang to his feet with an oath.

"My God!" he cried, "why do you do this for me? Who'll do anything for
her?"

Carlin blinked again, keeping his gaze aloof. Then he held out his hand,
and Willie seized it, saying,

"I'm--I'm precious hard hit, old man."

The other nodded and, as Willie sank back in his chair, stole quietly
out of the room, shutting the door close behind him.

Willie Ruston drew his chair nearer the fire, and spread out his hands
to the blaze. And as the heat warmed his frame, the stupor of his mind
passed, and he saw some of what was true--a glimpse of his naked self
thrown up against the light of the love that others found for him. And
he turned away his eyes, for it seemed to him that he could not look
long and endure to live. And he groaned that he had won love and made
for himself so mighty an accuser of debts that it lay not in him to pay.
For even then, while he cursed himself, and cursed the nature that would
not be changed in him; even while the words of his love were in his
ears, and her presence near with him; even while life seemed naught for
the emptiness her going made, and himself nothing but longing for her;
even then, behind regret, behind remorse, behind agony, behind
self-contempt and self-disgust, lay hidden, and deeper hidden as he
thrust it down, the knowledge that he was glad--glad that his life was
his own again, to lead and make and shape; wherein to take and hold, to
play and win, to fasten on what was his, and to beat down his enemies
before his face. That no man could rob him of, and the woman who could
would not. So, as Maggie Dennison had said, in the passing of an hour he
was glad; and in the passing of a week he had learnt to look in the face
of the gladness which he had and loathed.




                             CHAPTER XXIV.

                        THE RETURN OF A FRIEND.


About a week later, Tom Loring sat at work in his rooms. The table was
strewn with books of blue and of less alarming colours. Tom was smoking
a short pipe, and when he paused for a fresh idea, the smoke welled out
of his mouth, aye, and out of his nose, thick and fast. For a while he
wrote busily; then a dash of his pen proclaimed a finished task, and he
lay back in the luxury of accomplishment. Presently he pushed back his
chair, knocked out his pipe, refilled it, and stretched himself on the
sofa. After the day's work came the day's dream; and the day's dream
dwelt on the coming of the evening hour, when Tom was to take tea with
Adela Ferrars at half-past five. When he had an appointment like that,
it coloured his whole day, and made his hard labour pass lightly. Also
it helped him to forget what there was in his own life and his friends'
to trouble him; and he nursed with quiet patience a love that did not
expect, that hardly hoped for, any issue. As he had been content to be
Harry Dennison's secretary, so he seemed satisfied to be an undeclared
lover; finding enough for his modesty in what most men would have felt
only a spur to urge them to press further.

He was roused by a step on the stair. A moment later, Harry Dennison
burst into the room. Tom had seen him a few days before, uneasy,
troubled, apologetic, talking of Maggie's strange indisposition--she was
terribly out of sorts, he had said, and appeared to find all company and
all talk irksome. He had spoken with a meek compassion that exasperated
Tom--an unconsciousness of any hardship laid on him. Tom sat up, glad to
console him for an hour; glad, perhaps, of any company that would trick
an hour into the past. But to-day Harry's step was light; there was a
smile on his lips, a gleam of hope in his eyes; he rushed to Tom, seized
his hand, and, before he sat down or took off his hat, blurted out,

"Tom, old boy, she wants you to come back."

Tom started.

"What?" he cried, "Mrs. Dennison wants----"

"Yes," Harry went on, "she sent for me to-day, and told me that she saw
how I missed you, and that she was sorry that she had--well--sorry for
all the trouble, you know. Then she said, 'I wonder if Tom (she called
you Tom) bears malice. Tell him Omofaga is quite gone, and I want him to
come back, and if he'll come here, I'll go on my knees to him.'"

Harry stopped, smiling joyfully at his wonderful news. Tom wore a
doubtful look.

"I can't tell you," said Harry, "what it means to me. It's not only your
coming, old chap, though, heaven knows, I'm gladder of that than I've
been of anything for months--but you see what it means, Tom? It
means--why, it means that we're to be as we were before that fellow
came. Tom, she spoke to me more as she used to-day."

His voice faltered; he spoke as an innocent loyal man might of a pardon
from some loved capricious Sovereign. He had not understood the
disfavour--he had dimly discerned inexplicable anger. Now it was past,
and the sun shone again. Tom found himself saying,

"I wish there were more fellows in the world like you, Harry."

Harry's eyes opened in momentary astonishment at the irrelevance, but he
was too full of his news and his request to stay for wonder.

"You'll come, Tom?" he asked. "You won't refuse her?" "Could anyone
refuse her anything?" was what his tone said. "We want you, Tom," he
went on. "Hang it, I've had no one to speak to lately but that Cormack
woman. I hate that woman. She's always hinting something--some lie or
other, you know."

"Don't be too hard on little Mrs. Cormack," said Tom.

He remembered certain words which had shown a soft spot in Mrs.
Cormack's heart. Harry did not know that she had grieved to hear him
pacing up and down.

"You'll come, Tom? I know, of course, that you've a right to be angry,
and to say you won't, and all that. But I know you won't do it. She's
not well, Tom; and I--I can't always understand her. You used to
understand her, Tom. She used to like your chaff, you know."

Tom would not enter on that. He pressed Harry's hand, answering,

"Of course, I'll come."

"Bring all this with you," cried Harry. "I shan't take up your time. You
must stick to your own work as much as you like. When'll you come, Tom?"

"Why, to-morrow," said Tom Loring.

"Not now?"

"I might, if you like," smiled Tom.

"That's right, old chap. You can send round for your things. Bring a
bag, and come to-night. Your room's there for you. I told them to keep
it ready. Damn it, Tom, I thought things would come straight some day,
and I kept it ready."

Had things come straight? Tom did not know.

"I say," pursued Harry, "I met Ruston to-day. He was very kind about my
cutting the Omofaga. I wonder if I've been unjust to him!"

Then Tom smiled.

"I shouldn't bother about that, if I were you," said he.

"Well, he's not a thin-skinned chap, is he?" asked Harry, with relief.

"I should fancy not," said Tom.

"You see, he's off in a fortnight, and I thought we ought to part
friends. So I told him--well, I said, you know, that when he came back,
we should be glad to see him."

Tom began to laugh.

"You're getting quite a diplomatist, Harry," he said.

When Harry bustled away, his high spirits raised higher still by Tom's
ready assent, Tom put on the garb of society, and took a cab to Adela
Ferrars'.

"She'll be very pleased about this," thought Tom, as he went along.
"It's good news to take her."

But whatever else Tom Loring knew, it is certain that he was not
infallible on the subject of women and their feelings. He recognised the
fact (having indeed suspected it many times before) when Adela, on the
telling of his tidings, flashed out in petulance,

"She's sent for you back?" she asked; and Tom nodded.

"And you're going?" was the next quick question.

"Well, I could hardly refuse, could I?"

"No; I suppose not--at least not if you're Maggie Dennison's dog, for
her to drive away with a stick and whistle back at her pleasure."

Tom had been drinking tea. He set down the cup, and feebly stroked his
thigh with his hand; and he glanced at Adela (who was rattling the tea
things) with deprecatory surprise.

"I hadn't thought of it like that," he ventured to remark.

"Oh, of course, you hadn't. Maggie sends you away--you go. Maggie sends
a footman (well, then, Harry) for you--and back you go. And I suppose
you'll say you're very sorry, won't you? and you'll promise you won't do
it again, won't you?"

"I don't think I shall be asked to do that," said Tom, speaking
seriously, but showing a slight offence in his manner.

"But if she tells you to?" asked Adela scornfully.

"I didn't think you'd take it like this. Why shouldn't I go back?"

"Oh, go back! Go back and fetch and carry for Maggie, and write Harry's
speeches till the end of the chapter. Oh, yes, go back."

Tom was puzzled.

"Has anything upset you to-day?" he asked.

"Has anything upset me!" echoed Adela, throwing her eyes up to the
ceiling.

Tom finished his tea in a nervous gulp.

"I don't see why I shouldn't go back," he said.

"Well, I'm telling you to go back," said Adela. "Go back till she's had
enough of you again--and then be turned out again."

Tom's face grew crimson.

"At least," he said slowly, "she has never spoken to me like that."

Adela had left the table and taken an arm-chair near the fire. Her back
was to the door and her face towards Tom; she held a fire-screen between
her and him, letting the blaze burn her face. But Tom, being
unobservant, paid no attention to the position of the fire-screen. With
a look of pain on his face, he took up his hat and rose to his feet. The
meeting had been very different from what he had hoped.

"When do you go?" she asked brusquely.

"To-night. I'm just going back to my rooms for a bag, and then I shall
go. I'm sorry you should--I'm sorry you don't think I'm doing right."

"It doesn't matter two straws what I think," said Adela behind the
screen.

"Aye, but it does to me," said Tom.

She made no answer, and he stood for a moment, looking uneasily at the
intruding fire-screen.

"Well, good-bye," he said.

"Good-bye."

"I shall see you soon, I hope."

"If Maggie will let you come."

"I don't know," said Tom, "what pleasure you find in that. It seems to
me that as a gentleman--to say nothing of my being their friend--I must
go back."

She made no retort to this, and he moved a step towards the door. Then
he turned and glanced at her. She had dropped the screen and her eyes
were fixed on the fire. He sighed, frowned, shrugged his shoulders,
turned, and made for the door again. In another second he would have
been gone, but Adela cried softly,

"Mr. Loring."

"Yes," he answered, coming to a halt.

"Stay where you are a minute. Will you stay there a minute?"

"An hour if you like," said Tom.

"I just want to say that--that--You're coming nearer!--I want you to
stay just where you are."

Tom halted. He had, in fact, been coming slowly towards her.

"I suppose," said Adela, in quite an indifferent tone, "that you'll
settle down with the Dennisons again?"

"I don't know. Yes; I suppose so."

"Do you," said Adela, sinking far into the recesses of the arm-chair,
and holding up the screen again, "like being there better than anywhere
else? I suppose Maggie is very charming?"

"You know just what she is."

"I'm sure I don't. I'm a woman."

There was a long pause. Tom felt absurd, standing there in the middle of
the room. Suddenly Adela leapt to her feet.

"Oh, go away! Yes, you're right to go back. Oh, yes, you're quite right.
Good-bye, Mr. Loring."

For a moment longer Tom stood still; then he moved, not towards the
door, but towards Adela. When he spoke to her it was in a husky voice.
There were no sweet seducing tones in his voice.

"There's only one place in the world I really care to be," he said.

She did not speak.

"Harry and Mrs. Dennison are my friends," he said, "and as long as my
time's my own, I'll give it to them. But you don't suppose I go there
for happiness?"

"I don't suppose you ever did anything for happiness," said Adela, as
though she were advancing a heinous charge. "Really, nothing makes me so
impatient as an unselfish man."

Tom smiled, but his smile was still a nervous one. Nevertheless he felt
less absurd. A distant presage of triumph stole into his mind.

"Don't you want me to go?" he asked.

"You may go wherever you like," said she.

Tom came still nearer. Adela held out her hand and said "good-bye." Tom
took the hand and held it.

"You see," he said, "I didn't think I had anywhere else to go. I did
know a charming lady who was very witty and--very rich----!"

"I--I'll put some more in Omofaga and lose it. Oh, you are stupid, Tom!
I really thought I should have to ask you myself, Tom. I'd have done it
sooner than let you go."

It was not, happily, in the end necessary, and Adela said with a sigh,

"I believe that I've something to thank Mr. Ruston for, after all."

"What's that?"

"Why, he made me resolved to marry the man who of all the world was most
unlike him."

"Then I've something to thank him for too."

"Tom," she said, "I don't know what I said to you. I--I was jealous of
Maggie Dennison."

It was later by an hour when Tom Loring took his way, not to his rooms
for a bag, but straight to Curzon Street. Adela had consented not to
wait ("In one's eleventh season one does not want to wait," she said),
and Tom considered that it was now hardly worth while to move. So he
broke into Harry Dennison's study with a radiant face, crying,

"Harry, I'm not coming to you after all, old fellow."

Harry started up in dismay, but a short explanation turned his sorrow
into rejoicing. Again and again he shook Tom's hand, telling him that
the man who won a good wife won the greatest treasure earth could
offer--and (he added) "by Jove, Tom, I believe the best chance of heaven
too," and Tom gripped Harry's hand and cleared his own throat. Then they
both felt very much ashamed, and, by way of forgetting this deplorable
outburst of emotion (which Tom felt was quite un-English, and smacked
indeed of Mrs. Cormack), agreed to go upstairs and announce the news to
Maggie.

"She'll be delighted," said Harry.

Tom followed him upstairs to the drawing-room. Mrs. Dennison was sitting
by the fire, doing nothing. But she sprang up when they came in, and
advanced to meet Tom. He also felt like an ill-used subject as she gave
him her hand and said,

"How forgiving you are, Tom!"

He looked in her face, and found her smiling under sad eyes. And he
muttered some confused words about "all that" not mattering "tuppence."
And indeed Mrs. Dennison seemed content to take the same view, for she
smiled again and said,

"Ah, well, there's an end of it, anyhow."

Then Harry, who had been wondering why Tom delayed his tidings, burst
out with them, and Tom added lamely,

"Yes, it's true, Mrs. Dennison. So you see I can't come."

She laughed.

"I must accept your excuse," she said, and added a few kind words. "As
for Adela," she went on, "she's never been to see me lately, but for
your sake I'll be humble and go and see her to-morrow."

Harry, as though suddenly remembering, exclaimed that he must tell the
children; in fact, he had an idea that a man liked to talk about his
engagement to a woman alone, and plumed himself on getting out of the
room with some dexterity. So Tom and Maggie Dennison were left for a
little while together.

At first they talked of Adela, but it was on Tom's mind to say something
else, and at last he contrived to give it utterance.

"I can't tell you," he said, looking away from her, "how glad I was to
get your message. This--this trouble--has been horrible. I know I
behaved like a sulky fool. I was quite wrong. It's awfully good of you
to forget it."

"Don't talk like that," she said in a low, slow voice. "How do you think
Harry's looking?"

"Oh, better than I have seen him for a long time. But you're not looking
very blooming, Mrs. Dennison."

She leant forward.

"Do you think he's happy, or is he worrying? He talks to you, you know."

"I think he's happier than he's been for months."

She lay back with a sigh.

"I hope so," she said.

"And you?" he asked, timidly yet urgently.

It seemed useless to pretend complete ignorance, yet impossible to
assert any knowledge.

"Oh, why talk about me? Talk about Adela."

"I love Adela," he said gravely, "as I've never loved any other woman.
But when I was a young man and came here, you were very kind to me. And
I--no, I'll go on now--I looked up to you, and thought you the--the
grandest woman I knew; and to us young men you were a sort of queen.
Well, I haven't changed, Mrs. Dennison. I still think all that, and, if
you ever want a friend to help you, or--or a servant to serve you, why,
you can call on me."

She sat silent while he spoke, gazing at the ground in front of her. Tom
grew bolder.

"There was one thing I came to Dieppe to do, but I hadn't the courage
there. I wanted to tell you that Harry--that Harry was worthy of your
love. I thought--well, I've gone further than I thought I could. You
know; you must forgive me. If there's one thing in all the world that
makes me feel all I ever felt for you, and more, it's to see him happy
again, and you here trying to make him. Because I know that, in a way,
it's difficult."

"Do you know?" she asked.

"Yes, I know. And, because I know, I tell you that you're a wife any man
might thank God for."

Mrs. Dennison laughed; and Tom started at the jarring sound. Yet it was
not a sound of mirth.

"You had temptations most of us haven't--yes, and a nature most of us
haven't. And here you are. So,"--he rose from his chair and took her
hand that drooped beside her, and bent his head and kissed it--"though I
love Adela with all my heart, still I kiss your hand as your true and
grateful servant, as I used to be in old days."

Tom stopped; he had said his say, and his voice had grown tremulous in
the saying. Yet he had done it; he had told her what he felt; and he
prayed that it might comfort her in the trouble that had lined her
forehead and made her eyes sad.

Mrs. Dennison did not glance at him. For a moment she sat quite silent.
Then she said,

"Thanks, Tom," and pressed his hand.

Then she suddenly sat up in her chair and held her hand out before her,
and whispered to him words that he hardly heard.

"If you knew," she said, "you wouldn't kiss it; you'd spit on it."

Tom stood, silently, suddenly, wretchedly conscious that he did not know
what he ought to do. Then he blurted out,

"You'll stay with him?"

"Yes, I shall stay with him," she said, glancing up; and Tom seemed to
see in her eyes the picture of the long future that her words meant. And
he went away with his joy eclipsed.




                              CHAPTER XXV.

                            THE MOVING CAR.


In the month of June two years later, Lord Semingham sat on the terrace
outside the drawing-room windows of his country house. By him sat Adela
Loring, and Tom was to be seen a hundred yards away, smoking a pipe, and
talking to Harry Dennison. Suddenly Semingham, who had been reading the
newspaper, broke into a laugh.

"Listen to this," said he. "It is true that the vote for the Omofaga
railway was carried, but a majority of ten is not a glorious victory,
and there can be little doubt that the prestige of the Government will
suffer considerably by such a narrow escape from defeat, and by Lord
Detchmore's ill-advised championship of Mr. Ruston's speculative
schemes. Why is the British Government to pull the chestnuts out of the
fire for Mr. Ruston? That is what we ask."

Lord Semingham paused and added,

"They may well ask. I don't know. Do you?"

"Yesterday," observed Adela, "I received a communication from you in
your official capacity. It was not a pleasant letter, Lord Semingham."

"I daresay not, madam," said Semingham.

"You told me that the Board regretted to say that, owing to unforeseen
hindrances, the work in Omofaga had not advanced as rapidly as had been
hoped, and that for the present it was considered advisable to devote
all profits to the development of the Company's territory. You added
however, that you had the utmost confidence in Mr. Ruston's zeal and
ability, and in the ultimate success of the Company."

"Yes; that was the circular," said Semingham. "That is, in fact, for
some time likely to be the circular."

They both laughed; then both grew grave, and sat silent side by side.

The drawing-room window was thrown open, and Lady Semingham looked out.
She held a letter in her hand.

"Oh, fancy, Adela!" she cried. "Such a terrible thing has happened. I've
had a letter from Marjory Valentine--she's in awful grief, poor child."

"Why, what about?" cried Adela.

"Poor young Walter Valentine has died of fever in Omofaga. He caught it
at Fort Imperial, and he was dead in a week. Poor Lady Valentine! Isn't
it sad?"

Adela and Semingham looked at one another. A moment ago they had jested
on the sacrifices demanded by Omofaga; Semingham had seen in the
division on the vote for the railway a delightful extravagant burlesque
on a larger stage of the fatefulness which he had whimsically read into
Willie Ruston's darling scheme. Adela had fallen into his mood, adducing
the circular as her evidence. They were taken at their word in grim
earnest. Omofaga claimed real tears, as though in conscious malice it
had set itself to outplay them at their sport.

"You don't say anything, Alfred," complained little Lady Semingham from
the window.

"What is there to say?" asked he, spreading out his hands.

"The only son of his mother, and she is a widow," whispered Adela,
gazing away over the sunny meadows.

Bessie Semingham looked at the pair for an instant, vaguely dissatisfied
with their want of demonstrativeness. There seemed, as Alfred said, very
little to say; it was so sad that there ought to have been more to say.
But she could think of nothing herself, so, in her pretty little lisp,
she repeated,

"How sad for poor Lady Valentine!" and slowly shut the window.

"He was a bright boy, with the makings of a man in him," said Semingham.

Adela nodded, and for a long while neither spoke again. Then Semingham,
with the air of a man who seeks relief from sad thoughts which cannot
alter sadder facts, asked,

"Where are the Dennisons?"

"She went for a walk by herself, but I think she's come back and gone a
stroll with Tom and Harry." As she spoke, she looked up and caught a
puzzled look in Semingham's eye. "Yes," she went on in quick
understanding. "I don't quite understand her either."

"But what do you think?" he asked, in his insatiable curiosity that no
other feeling could altogether master.

"I don't want to think about it," said Adela. "But, yes, I'll tell you,
if you like. She isn't happy."

"No. I could tell you that," said he.

"But Harry is happy. Lord Semingham, when I see her with him--her
sweetness and kindness to him--I wonder."

This time it was Semingham who nodded silent assent.

"And," said Adela, with a glance of what seemed like defiance, "I pray."

"You're a good woman, Adela," said he.

"He sees no change in her, or he sees a change that makes him love her
more. Surely, surely, some day, Lord Semingham----?"

She broke off, leaving her hope unexpressed, but a faint smile on her
face told of it.

"It may be--some day," he said, as though he hardly hoped. Then, with
one of his quick retreats, he took refuge in asking, "Are you happy with
your husband, Adela? I hope to goodness you are."

"Perfectly," she answered, with a bright passing smile.

"But you get no dividends," he suggested, raising his brows.

"No; no dividends," said she. "No more do you."

"No; but we shall."

"I suppose we shall."

"He'll pull us through."

"I wish he'd never been born," cried Adela.

"Perhaps. Since he has, I shall keep my eye on him."

From the shrubbery at the side of the lawn, Maggie Dennison came out.
She was leaning on her husband's arm, and Tom Loring walked with them. A
minute later they had heard from Adela the news of the ending of young
Sir Walter's life and hopes.

"Good God!" cried Harry Dennison in grief.

They sat down and began to talk sadly of the lost boy. Only Maggie
Dennison said nothing. Her eyes were fixed on the sky, and she seemed
hardly to hear. Yet Adela, stealing a glance at her, saw her clenched
hand quiver.

"Do you remember," asked Semingham, "how at Dieppe Bessie would have it
that the little red crosses were tombstones? She was quite pleased with
the idea."

"Yes; and how horrified the old Baron was," said Adela.

"Both he and Walter gone!" mused Harry Dennison.

"Well, the omen is fulfilled now," said Tom Loring. "Ruston need not
fear for himself."

Harry Dennison turned a sudden uneasy glance upon his wife. She looked
up and met it with a calm sad smile.

"He was a brave boy," she said. "Mr. Ruston will be very sorry." She
rose and laid her hand on her husband's arm. "Come, Harry," she said,
"we'll walk again."

He rose and gave her his arm. She paused, glancing from one to the other
of the group.

"You mustn't think he won't be sorry," she said pleadingly.

Then she pressed her husband's arm and walked away with him. They passed
again into the fringing shrubbery and were lost to view. Tom Loring did
not go with them this time, but sat down by his wife's side. For a while
no one spoke. Then Adela said softly,

"She knows him better than we do. I suppose he will be sorry. Will he be
sorry for Marjory too?"

"If he thinks of her," said Semingham.

"Yes--if he thinks of her."

Semingham lit a cigarette and watched the smoke curl skywards.

"Some of us are bruised," said he, "and some of us are broken."

"Not beyond cure?" Adela beseeched, touching his arm.

"God knows," said he with a shrug.

"Not beyond cure?" she said again, insisting.

"I hope not, my dear," said Tom Loring gently.

"Bruised or broken--bruised or broken!" mused Semingham, watching his
smoke-rings. "But the car moves on, eh, Adela?"

"Yes, the car moves on," said she.

"And I don't know," said Tom Loring, "that I'd care to be the god who
sits in it."

                                   * * * * *

While Maggie Dennison walked with Harry in the shrubbery, and the group
on the terrace talked of the god in the car, on the other side of the
world a man sat looking out of a window under a new-risen sun. Presently
his eyes dropped, and they fell on a wooden cross that stood below the
window. A cheap wreath of artificial flowers decked it--a wreath one of
Ruston's company had carried over seas from the grave of his dead wife,
and had brought out of his treasures to honour young Sir Walter's grave;
because he and they all had loved the boy. And, as Maggie Dennison had
said, Ruston also was sorry. His eyes dwelt on the cross, while he
seemed to hear again Walter's merry laugh and confident ringing tones,
and to see his brave, lithe figure as he sprang on his horse and
cantered ahead of the party, eager for the road, or the sport, aye, or
the fight. For a moment Willie Ruston's head fell, then he got up--the
cross had sent his thoughts back to the far-off land he had left. He
walked across the little square room to an iron-bound box; unlocking it,
he searched amid a pile of papers and found a woman's letter. He began
to read it, but, when he had read but half, he laid it gently down again
among the papers and closed and locked the box. His face was white and
set, his eyes gleamed as if in anger. Suddenly he muttered to himself,

"I loved that boy. I never thought of it killing him."

And on thought of the boy came another, and for an instant the stern
mouth quivered, and he half-turned towards the box again. Then he jerked
his head, muttering again; yet his face was softer, till a heavy frown
grew upon it, and he pressed his hand for the shortest moment to his
eyes.

It was over--over, though it was to come again. Treading heavily on the
floor--there was no lightness left in his step--he reached the door, and
found a dozen mounted men waiting for him, and a horse held for him. He
looked round on the men; they were fine fellows, tall and stalwart,
ready for anything. Slowly a smile broke on his face, an unmirthful
smile, that lasted but till he had said,

"Well, boys, we must teach these fellows a little lesson to-day."

His followers laughed and joked, but none joined him where he rode at
their head. The chief was a man to follow, not to ride with, they said,
half in liking, half in dislike, wholly in trust and deference. Yet in
old days he had been good to ride with too.

The car was moving on. Maybe Tom Loring was not very wrong, when he said
that he would not care to be the man who sat in it.


                                THE END.




                           Transcriber Notes:

Passages in italics were indicated by _underscores_.

Small caps were replaced with ALL CAPS.

Throughout the document, the oe ligature was replaced with "oe".

Throughout the dialogues, there were words used to mimic accents of
the speakers. Those words were retained as-is.

Errors in punctuations and inconsistent hyphenation were not corrected
unless otherwise noted.

On page 57, a period was added after "Mr".

On page 67, "Omafaga" was replaced with "Omofaga".

On page 109, "thats" was replaced with "that's".

On page 238, "wathc" was replaced with "watch".

On page 244, a single quotation mark was replaced with a double
quotation mark.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The God in the Car, by Anthony Hope

